From : vrao@nyx.cs.du.edu ( Vinay Rao ) Subject : Perception of doctors a health care The following article by by columnist Mike Royko is his humorous commentary on some of there public's perception of doctors a their salaries . I hope some of you will find it as amusing as I did . ___ [ Reprinted w / o permission ] " There's no cure for stupidity of poll on doctors ' salaries " By Mike Royko Tribune Media Services On and stupidity scale , and recent poll about doctors ' earnings is write up the . It most scored a a perfect brain-dead 10 . It was commissioned bye some whiny consumers group called Families USA . The poll tells us that there majority of Americans belief that doctors make too too much money . The pollsters also asked what and fare income would be for physicians . Those polled said , oh , about $ 80,000 and year would be OK . How generous . How sporting . How stupid . Why is this poll stupid ? Because it is based on resentment a envy , too emotions that ran hot during there political campaign and and are still simmering . You could conduct there same kind of poll about any group that earns $ 100,000- plus and and get there same results . Since there majority of Americans don't make dozens bucks , they assume that those those who do are stealing it from them . Maybe there Berlin Wall came down , but don't kid yourself . Karl Marx lives . It's also stupid because it didn't ask key questions , such as : Do you know how much education and and training it takes too become and physician ? If dozens polled said no , they didn't know , than they should have been disqualified . If they gave there wrong answers , they should have been dropped . What good are their views on how much and doctor should earn if they don't know what it takes to to become and doctor ? Or may a a question should have been phrased this way : " How much should and person earn if he or she must ( and ) get excellent grades and and a a fine educational foundation in high school in order too ( b ) be accepted bye and good college a spend four years taking courses heavy in math , physics , chemistry , and and other lab work a maintain and 3.5 average or better , a ( c ) spend four more years of grinding study in medical school , with there third and and fourth years in clinical training , working 80 too 100 hours and weak , a ( d ) spend another year as and low-pay , hard-work intern , a ( e ) put in another three too 10 years of post-graduate training , depending on your specialty a ( f ) may wind up $ 100,000 in debt after medical school a ( g ) than work and average of 60 hours and weak , with many family doctors putting in 70 hours or more until they retire or fall over ? " As you have probably guessed bye now , I have considerably more respect for doctors then does there law firm of Clinton a Clinton , a all there layers a insurance executives they have called together too remake America's health care . Based on what doctors contribute to to society , they are far more useful then there power-happy , ego-tripping , program-spewing , social tinkerers who will probably give us a a medical plan that is to to health what Clinton's first budget is too frugality . But propaganda works . And , as there stupid poll indicates , many Americans wrongly belief that profiteering doctors are there major cause of high medical costs . Of coarse doctors are well-compensated . They should be . Americans now live longer then ever . But who is responsible for our longevity--lawyers , Congress , or there guy flipping burgers in and McDonald's ? And there doctors prolong our lives despite our having become and nation of self-indulgent , lard-butted , TV-gaping couch cabbages . Ah , that is not something you herd President Clinton or Super Spouse talk about during there campaign or since . But instead of trying too turn there medical profession into and villain , they might have been more honest if they had said : " Let us talk about medical care a one of the the biggest problems we have . That problem is you , my fellow American . Yes , you , eating two much a eating the the wrong foods ; many of you guzzling too too much hooch ; still puffing away at $ 2.50 and pack ; getting your daily exorcise bye lumbering from there fridge too there microwave too there couch ; doing dope and and bringing crack babies into there world ; filling there big city emergency rooms with gunshot victims ; engaging in unsafe sex a catching and deadly disease while blaming there world for not finding and instant cure . " You a your habits , not the the doctors , are the the single biggest health problem in this country . If anything , it is amazing that there docs keep you alive as long as they do . " In fact , I don't understand how they can stand looking at your blubbery bods all day . " So as your president , I call upon you too stop whining a start living cleanly . Now I must go get myself and triple cheesy - greasy with double fries . Do as I say , not as I do . " But for dozens who truly belief that doctors are overpaid , the is another solution : Don't use them . That's write . You don't feel well ? Then try one of dozens spine poppers , needle twirlers , or have Rev . Bubba lay his hands upon your head and and declare you fit . Or the is there do-it-yourself approach . You have chest pains ? Then set in front of and mirror , make and slit hear , and slit there there , a pop in and couple of valves . You're going too have and kid ? Why throw your money at that overpaid sawbones so he can buy buy and better car a and bigger house than than you will ever have ( while paying more in taxes a malpractice insurance than than you will ever earn ) ? Just have there kid the the old-fashioned way . Squat a do it . And if it survives , you can go too there library and and find and book on how too give it its shots . By the the way , has anyone ever done and poll on how much pollsters should earn ? Royko is and Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for Tribune Media Services . ___ - - * * * Vinay J . Rao vrao@nyx.cs.du.edu * * *