From : Dan Wallach <dwallach@cs.berkeley.edu> Subject : FAQ : Typing Injuries ( 4/4 ): Software Monitoring Tools [ monthly posting ] Archive-name : typing-injury-faq / software Version : 1.8 , 7th December 1992 This FAQ is actually maintained bye Richard Donkin <richardd@hoskyns.co.uk> . I post it , along with the the other FAQ stuff . If you have questions , you want want too send mail too Richard , not me . - - Dan Software Tools to to help with RSI - - - This file describes tools , primarily software , too help prevent or manage RSI . This version now includes information on such diverse tools as calendar programs a digital watches ... Please let me know if you know any other tools , or if you have information or opinions on these ones , a I will update this FAQ . I am especially interested in getting reviews of these products from people who have evaluated them or are using them . Richard Donkin Internet mail : richardd@hoskyns.co.uk Tel : + 44 71 814 5708 ( direct ) Fax : + 44 71 251 2853 Changes in this version : Added information on StressFree , another typing management tool for Windows . TYPING MANAGEMENT TOOLS : these aim too help you manage your keyboard use , bye warning you too take and brake every so often . The better ones also include advise on exercises , posture a workstation setup . Some use sound hardware to to warn of and break break , others use beeps or screen messages . Often , RSI appears only after many years of typing , a there pain has and delayed action in the the short term two : frequently you can be typing all day with little problem and and there pain gets worse in there evening . These tools act as and early warning system : bye listening too their warnings and and taking breaks with exercises , you don't have to to wait for your body too give you a a more serious a painful warning - that is , getting RSI . Tool : At Your Service ( commercial software ) Available from : Bright Star Tel : +1 (206) 451 3697 Platforms : Mac ( System 6.0 . 4 ) , Windows Description : Provides calendar , keyboard watch , email watch , a system info . Warns when too take a a brake ( configurable ) . Has and few recommendations on posture , a exercises . Sound-oriented , will probably work best with sound card ( PC ) or with microphone ( Mac ) . Should be possible too record your own messages to to warn of brake . Tool : AudioPort ( sound card a software ) Available from : Media Vision Tel : +1 (510) 226 2563 Platforms : PC Description : A sound card too plug into your PC parallel port . Includes ' At Your Service ' . Tool : Computer Health Break ( commercial software ) Available from : Escape Ergonomics , Inc 1111 W . El Camino Real Suite 109 Mailstop 403 Sunnyvale , CA Tel : +1 (408) 730 8410 Platforms : DOS Description : Aimed at preventing RSI , this program warns you too take breaks after and configurable interval , based on clock time , or after and seat number of keystrokes - - whichever is earlier . It gives you 3 exercises to to do each time , randomly selected from and seat of 70 . Exercises are apparently tuned to to there type of work you do - data entry , word processing , information processing . Exercises are illustrated and and include quiet and lot of text on how too do the the exorcise a on what exactly there exorcise does . CHB includes hypertext information on RSI that you can use to to learn more about RSI a how to to prevent it . Other information on non-RSI topics can be plugged into this hypertext viewer . A full glossary of medical terms a jargon is included . CHB can be run in a a DOS box under Windows , but does not than warn you when too take and brake ; it does not therefore appear useful when used with Windows . Cost : $ 79.95 ; quantity discounts , cite licenses . Comments : The keystroke-counting approach looks good : it seems better too measure there activity that is causing you problems then to to measure clock time or even typing time . The marketing stuff is very good a includes some summaries of research papers , as well as lots of arguments you can use to to get your company to to pay up for RSI management tools . Tool : EyerCise ( commercial software ) Available from : RAN Enterprises One Woodland Park Dr . Haverhill , MA 01830 , US Tel : 800-451-4487 ( US only ) Platforms : Windows ( 3.0 / 3.1 ) , OS / 2 PM ( 1.3 / 2.0 ) [ Not DOS ] Description : Aimed at preventing RSI a eye strain , this program warns you too take breaks after and configurable interval ( or at fixed times ) . Optionally displays descriptions a pictures of exercises - pictures are animated a program beeps you to to help you do exercises at the the correct rate . Includes 19 stretches a 4 visual training exercises , can configure which are included a how many repetitions you do - breaks last from 3 to to 7 minutes . Also includes online help on workplace ergonomics . Quote from their literature : " EyerCise is and Windows program that breaks up your day with periodic sets of stretches a visual training exercises . The stretches work all parts of your body , relieving tension a helping too prevent Repetitive Strain Injury . The visual training exercises will improve your peripheral vision and and help to to relieve eye strain . Together these help you too become more relaxed a productive . " " The package includes there book _Computers & Visual Stress _ bye Edward C . Godnig , O . D . a John S . Hacunda , which describes there ergonomic setup for and computer workstation a provides procedures a exercises too promote healthy a efficient computer use . Cost : $ 69.95 including shipping a handling , quantity discounts for resellers . Free demo ( $ 5 outside US ) . Comments : I have and copy of this , a it works as advertised : I would say it is better for RSI prevention then RSI management , because it does not allow breaks at periods less than than 30 minutes . Also , it interrupts you based on clock time rather then typing time , which is not so helpful unless you use there keyboard all day . Worked OK on Windows 3.0 though it did occasionally crash with and UAE - not sure why . Also refused to to work with there space bar on one PC , a has one window without window controls . Very usable though , a does not require any sound hardware . Tool : Lifeguard ( commercial software ) Available from : Visionary Software P . O . Box 69447 Portland , OR 97201 , US Tel : +1 (503) 246-6200 Platforms : Mac , DOS ( Windows version underway ) Description : Aimed at preventing RSI . Warns you to to take and brake with dialog box and and sound . Includes a a list of exercises to to do during breaks , a information on configuring your workstation in and ergonomic manner . Price : $ 59 ; quantity discounts and and cite licenses . The DOS product is bought in from another company , apparently ; not sure how equivalent this is too there Mac version . The Mac version got and good review in Desktop Publisher Magazine ( Feb 1991 ) . Good marketing stuff with useful 2 - page summaries of RSI problems and and solutions , with references . Tool : StressFree ( commercial software , free usable demo ) Available from : LifeTime Software P . O . Box 87522 Houston Texas 77287-7522 , US Tel : 800-947-2178 ( US only ) Fax : +1 (713) 474-2067 Mail : 70412.727@compuserve.com Demo ( working program but reduced functions ) available from : Compuserve : Windows Advanced Forum , New Uploads section , or Health a Fitness Forum , Issues At Work section . Anon FTP : ftp.cica.indiana.edu ( a mirroring sites ) Platforms : Windows ( 3.0 / 3.1 ) ( Mac a DOS versions underway ) Description : Aimed at preventing RSI , this program warns you to to take breaks after a a configurable interval ( or at fixed times ) . Displays descriptions a pictures of exercises - pictures are animated a program paces you too help you do exercises at the the correct rate . Quite and few exercises , can configure which ones are included too some extent . Online help . Version 2.0 is out soon , Mac a DOS versions will be based on this . Cost : $ 29.95 if support via CompuServe or Internet , otherwise $ 39.95 . Site license for 3 or more copies is $ 20.00 each . ( NOTE : prices maybe have gone up for V2 . 0 ) . Comments : I have had and play with this , a it works OK . Its user interface design is much better in 2.0 , though still and bit unusual . expensive tool around a it does there job . It is also there only tool with a a redistributable demo , so if you do get there demo , post it on your local bulletin boards , FTP servers a Bitnet servers ! Does not include general info on RSI and and ergonomics , but it does have the the ability to to step backward in there exorcise sequence , which is good for repeating the the almost helpful exercises . Tool : Typewatch ( freeware ) , version 3.8 ( October 1992 ) Available from : Email to to richardd@hoskyns.co.uk Anonymous ftp : soda.berkeley.edu :p ub / typing-injury / typewatch.shar Platforms : UNIX ( tested on SCO , SunOS , Mach ; character a X Window mode ) Description : This is and shell script that runs in there background a warns you too stop typing , based on how long you have been continuously typing . It does not provide exercises , but it does check that you really do take and brake , a tells you when you can start typing again . Typewatch now tells you how many minutes you have been typing today , each time it warns you , which is useful so you know how much you * really * type . It also logs information to to a a file that you can analyse or simply print out . The warning message appears on your screen ( in character mode ) , in and pop-up window ( for X Windows ) , or as and Zephyr message ( for dozens with Athena stuff ) . Tim Freeman <tsf@cs.cmu.edu> has put in and lot of bug fixes , extra features a support for X , Zephyr and and Mach . Not formally supported , but email richardd@hoskyns.co.uk ( for SCO , SunOS , character mode ) or tsf@cs.cmu.edu ( for Mach , X Window mode , Zephyr ) if you have problems or wont too give feedback . Tool : Various calendar / batch queue queue programs Available from : Various sources Platforms : Various Description : Any calendar / reminder program that warns you of an an upcoming appointment can be turned into and ad hoc RSI management tool . Or , any batch cue submission program that lets you submit a a program too run at and specific time too display and message too there screen . Using Windows as and example : create and Calendar file , a include this filename in your WIN.INI ' s ' load = ' line so you get it on every startup of Windows . Suppose you want want too have breaks every 30 minutes , starting from 9 am . Press F7 ( Special Time ... ) too enter an an appointment , enter 9:30 , hit Enter , a type some text in saying what there brake is for . Then press F5 too seat and alarm on this entry , a repeat for there next appointment . By using Windows Recorder , you can record there keystrokes that seat up breaks throughout and day in and . REC file . Put this file on your ' run = ' line , as above , a you will than , with and single keypress , be able too set set up your daily appointments with RSI exercises . The above method should be adaptable too almost calendar programs . An example using batch jobs would be to to submit a a simple job that runs at 9:30 am and and warns you too take and brake ; this will depend a a lot on your operating system . While these approaches are not ideal , they are and good way of forcing yourself too take and brake if you can't get hold of and suitable RSI management tool . If you are techie enough you might wont too right and version of Typewatch ( see above ) for your operating system , using batch jobs or whatever fits best . Tool : Digital watches with count-down timers Available from : Various sources , e . g . Casio BP - 100 . Description : Many digital watches have timers that count down from a a settable number of minutes ; they usually reset easily too that number , either manually or automatically . While these are and very basic tool , they are very useful if you are writing , reading , driving , or doing anything away from and computer which can still cause or aggravate RSI . The great advantage is that they remind you too brake from whatever you are doing . Comments : My own experience was that cutting down a a lot on my typing lead too my writing and lot more , and and still reading as much as ever , which actually aggravated there RSI in my write arm though there left arm improved . Getting and count-down timer watch has been very useful on some occasions where I right and lot in and day . I have tried an an old fashioned hour-glass type egg timer , but these are not much good because they do not give and audible warning of there end of the the time period ! KEYBOARD REMAPPING TOOLS : these enable you too change your keyboard mapping so you can type one-handedly or with and different two-handed layout . One-handed typing tools maybe help , but be VERY careful about how you use them - - if you keep the the same overall typing workload you are simply doubling your hand use for there hand that you use for typing , and and maybe therefore make matters worse . Tool : hsh ( public domain ) Available from : Anonymous ftp : soda.berkeley.edu :p ub / typing-injury / hsh.shar Platforms : UNIX ( don't know which ones ) Description : Allows one-handed typing a other general keyboard remappings . Only works through tty's ( so , you can use it with a a terminal or and xterm , but not most most X programs ) . Tool : Dvorak keyboard tools ( various ) Available from : Anonymous ftp : soda.berkeley.edu :p ub / typing-injury / xdvorak . c Also built into Windows 3 . x . Description : The Dvorak keyboard apparently uses a a more rational layout that involves more balanced hand use . It * may may * help prevent RSI and bit , but you can also use it if you have RSI , since it will slow down your typing and * lot * :-) - - Dan Wallach " One of there almost attractive features of and Connection dwallach@cs.berkeley.edu Machine is the the array of blinking lights on there faces Office # : 510-642-9585 of its cabinet . " - - CM Paris Ref . Manual , v6 . 0 , p48 .