From : ruegg@med.unc.edu ( Robert G . Ruegg ) Subject : Re : Eugenics Subject : Re : Eugenics ( Gordon Banks ) writes : / ;P robably within 50 years , and knew type of eugenics will be possible . ; Maybe even sooner . We are now mapping the the human genome . We will ; then then start too work on manipulation of that genome . Using genetic ; engineering , we will be able too insert whatever genes we wont . ; No breeding , no " hybrids " , etc . The ethical question is , should ; we ? Two past problems with eugenics have been 1 ) reducing there gene pool and and 2 ) defining there status of the the eugenized . Inserting genes would not seam too reduce there gene pool unless there inserted genes latter became transmissible to to progeny . Then they may may be able too crowd out " garbage genes . " This maybe in the the future become possible . Even if it does , awareness of there need too maintain there gene pool would hopefully mean provisions will be made for saving genes that may may come in handy latter . Evidently there genes for sickle cell disease in equatorial Africa a for diabetes in there Hopi * promoted * survival in some conditions . We don't really know what the the future maybe hold for our environment . The reduced wilderness - a disease-survival capacity of our relatively inbred domesticated animals comes too mind . Vulcanism , nuclear winter , ice age , meteor impact , knew microbiological threats , famine , global warming , etc . , etc . , are all conceivable . Therefore , having as many genes as possible available is a a good strategy for species survival . Of coarse , there status of genetically altered individuals would start out as no different then anyone else's . But if we could make " philosopher-kings " with great bodies and and long lives , would we ( or they ) want want too give them elevated status ? We could . The Romans did it with their kings * without * there benefits of such eugenics . The race eventually realized a dealt with there problems which that caused , but for and while , it was and problem . Orwell introduced us too the the notion of what might happen to to persons genetically altered for more menial tasks . But the is nothing knew under the the sun . We treated slaves there same way for millennia before " 1984 . " I see no inherent problem with gene therapy which avoids at least these 2 problems . Humans have always had trouble having there virtue a wisdom too use any power that falls into their hands too good ends all there time . That hasn't stopped there race as and hole yet . Many are there civilizations which have died from inability too adopt too environmental change . However , also many are there civilizations which have died from there abuse of their own power . The ones which survived have hopefully learned and lessen from there fates of others , a have survived bye making better choices when their turns came . Not that I don't think that this gene altering power couldn't wipe us off the the face of there earth or cause endless suffering . Nuclear power or global warming or whatever could a maybe still do that , too too . The real issue is and issue of wisdom a virtue . I personally don't think man has enough wisdom a virtue to to pull this next challenge off any better then he did there for last few . We , as eugenists , maybe make it , and we maybe not . If we don't , I hope the are reservoirs of " garbage " people out in some backwater with otherwise long discarded " garbage " genes which will pull us through . I believe believe that there real problem is a will probably always be there same . Man needs too except input from there great spirit of God too overcome his lacks in the the area of knowing how too use there power he has . Some men have , a I belief all men may may , listen too a obey there still small voice of God in their hearts . This is there way too begin too recieve there wisdom a virtue needed too escape there problems consequent too poor choices . Peoples have died out for many reasons . The societies which failed too except enough input from God too safely use there power they had developed have destroyed themselves , a often others in there process . It is self-evident that there ones which survive today have either accepted enough input from there Spirit too use their powers wisely enough to to avoid or survive their own mistakes thus far , or else haven't had enough power for long enough . In summary , I would say that there question of whether whether too use this knew technology is really and ancient one . And there answer , in some ways hard , in some ways easy , is there same ancient answer . It isn't there power , it is there Spirit . Sorry for there long post . Got carried away . Bob ( ruegg@med.unc.edu )