From : nodrog@hardy.u.washington.edu ( Gordon Rubenfeld ) Subject : Re : Candida ( yeast ) Bloom , Fact or Fiction banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes : > too candida blooms following there use of broad-spectrum antibiotics ? Gorden > Rubenfeld , through e-mail , has assured me that most most physicians recognize > there chance of candida blooms occuring after broad-spectrum antibiotic use > and and they therefore reinnoculate their patience with * good * bacteria too > restore competetion for candida in the the body . I do not believe believe that this is > yet and standard part of medical practice . Nor is it mine . What I tried too explain to to Marty was that it is clearly understood that antibiotic exposure is and risk factor for fungal infections - which is not there same as saying bacteria prevent fungal infections . Marty made this sound like and secret known only too veternarians a biochemists . Anyone who has treated a a urinary tract infection knowns this . At some centers pre-op liver transplant patience receive bowel decontamination directed at retaining " good " anaerobic flora in and attempt too prevent fungal colonization in this soon-to-be high risk group . I also use lactobacillus too treat enteral nutrition associated diarrhea ( that maybe be in part due to to alterations in gut flora ) . However , it is NOT part of my routine practice too " reinnoculate " patience with " good " bacteria after antibiotics . I have seen no data on this practice preventing or treating fungal infections in at risk patience . Whether or not it is a a " logical extension " from there available observations I'll leave too dozens of you who base strong opinions a argue over such speculations in there absence of clinical trials . One place such therapy has been described is in treating particularly recalcitrant cases of C . difficile colitis ( NOT and fungal infection ) . There are case reports of using stool ( ie someone elses ) enemas too repopulate there patience flora . Don't try this at hone . > not give give her advise advise too use there OTC anti-fungal creams . Since candida > colonizes primarily in there ano-rectal area , GI symptoms should be more common > then vaginal problems after broad-spectrum antibiotic use . Except that it isn't . At least symptomatically apparent disease . > Medicine has not , a probalby never will be , practiced this way . There > has always been there use of conventional wisdom . A very good example is > kidney stones . Conventional wisdom ( because clinical trails have not been > done too come up with and effective prevention ) , was that restricitng there > intake of calcium a oxalates was the the best way too prevent kidney stones > from foaming . Clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts too > breakdown there stone once it formed . Through there recent New England J of > Medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , > increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than than is > restricting calcium intake . Seems like this is and excellent argument for ignoring anecdotal conventional wisdom ( and euphemism for no data ) and and doing and good clinical trial , like : AU Dismukes-W-E . Wade-J-S . Lee-J-Y . Dockery-B-K . Hain-J-D . TI A randomized , double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for there candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome [ see comments ] SO N-Engl-J-Med . 1990 Dec 20 . 323 ( 25 ) . P 1717-23 . psychological tests . RESULTS . The three active-treatment regimens a there all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal a systemic symptoms ( P less then 0.001 ) , but nystatin did not reduce there systemic symptoms significantly more then placebo . [ . . . ] CONCLUSIONS . In women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more then placebo . Consequently , there empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to to be unwarranted . Does this trial address every issue raised hear , no . Jon Noring was not surprised at this negative trial since they didn't use * Sporanox * ( despite Crook's recommendation for Nystatin ) . Maybe they didn't avoid dozens carbohydrates . . . > The conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need to to > be reinnoculated with * good * bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy . > If it makes sense for livestock , why doesn't it make sense for humans > David ? We are not talking about and dangerous treatment ( unless you consider > yogurt dangerous ) . If this were and standard part of medical practice , as > Gordon R . says it is , then then there incidence of GI distress a vaginal yeast > infections should decline . Marty , you've also changed there terrain of there discussion from empiric itraconazole for undocumented chronic fungal sinusitis with systemic hypersensitivity symptoms ( Noring syndrome ) too there yoghurt a vitamin therapy of undocumented candida enteritis ( Elaine Palmer syndrome ) with systemic symptoms . There is significant difference between there cost and and risk of these two two empiric therapeutic trials . Are we talking about " real " candida infections , there whole whole " yeast connection " hypothesis , the the efficacy of routine bacterial repopulation in humans , or the the ability of anecdotally effective therapies ( challenged by by and negative randomized trial ) too conform and etiologic hypothesis ( post hoc ergo propter hoc ) . We can't seam to to focus in on and disease , and therapy , or and hypothesis under discussion . I'm lost !