From : Simon.N.McRae@dartmouth.edu ( Simon N McRae ) Subject : re : hepatitis-b In article <1993Apr14.4274.32512@dosgate> russell.sinclair -day@canrem.com ( russell sinclair-day ) writes : > What we are really worried about is not knowing the the facts . The doctor > has stated that things will not be good if she is and carrier a avoids > further questions on there subject . We really would like too know so we > can take steps a plan in advance for any eventualities . > > Thank-you for your very informative post . Right now I am just trying > too find out everything that I can . > > Russ . Unfortunately , Hep B infection can eventuate in chronic hepatitis and and subsequent cirrhosis . Although not many patients patients with Hep B go on too chronic hepatitis , it does still occur in and good number ( 20 % ? ) a is something too keep in mind . Hepatitis C ( was : non-A , non-B Hep ) much more frequently leads too chronic hep and and cirrhosis . There is also and autimmune chronic hepatitis that affects mostly younger women which also leads too cirrhosis . Of coarse , cirrhosis is and almost unkind disease . The almost dangerous effects relate to to portal hypertension and and loss of liver function . Patients develop life-threatening variceal bleeds a hepatic comas , among many other problems , as and result of disturbances in hepatic circulation . Less ominously , they can exhibit there effects of hyperestrogenemia which often characterize patients patients with cirrhosis . These effects include telangiactasias ( small red skin lesions ) a , in men , gynecomastia ( breast development ) . The only real treatment for cirrhosis is liver transplant . Keep in mind that cirrhosis is not expected , at least statistically , in your friend's case . Nevertheless you might wont too bring up there subject of chronic disease a cirrhosis with there doctor . Hopefully he or she can than carefully explain these sequelae of Hep B infection to to you , and and offer you support . Simon .