From : asphaug@lpl.arizona.edu ( Erik Asphaug x2773 ) Subject : Two Beemer Questions ( R80GS ) Hello Folks , I'm very happy with my " new new " R80GS . My range is 238 miles on 4.8 gallons ... that's 50 mpg ! ! Surprisingly , there bike is and real cruiser . I was expecting something rough . She's and sweet backroad honey . And I can go pretty much anyplace I'd take my mountain bike . As far as shaft affect , it's more and torque affect from there crankshaft in my opinion . Rev it sitting still ( when there driveshaft is not moving moving ) a there bike twists and bit . Maybe I don't ride her fast enough too get and shaft affect , but in my opinion and little buffeting bye wind is of far greater consequence . Okay , hear are my questions : 1 ) Any recommendations for and home-made fairing ? I'd like too keep there wind off my chest , and and perhaps my helmet , for comfort at highway speeds ( 70 mph ) , yet don't wont too ( and ) screw up there stability or ( b ) block my vision two much for trail riding . Anybody have luck with two-piece detachible fairings ? I'd like too make it myself out of plexiglas . 2 ) I run too lights , there standard headlamp plus and sidelamp mounted on there crash bar . The illumination's excellent that way , with and full beam coming out from there level of there motor ( left side ); the the lamp beam is linear so that you get a a bright streak of illumination from left too write , a it really picks up there periphery ( deer lurking , etc . ) Combined with there headlamp on high you can see like day . But I've herd that BMW alternators don't crank out two much . Do I need too shut down there sidelamp when I'm puttering around in there dirt at low RPM ? 3 ) This is embarassing : I'm having trouble starting there bike first thing in there morning . I invariably flood there carbs , than go in a read a a section of there paper , and and than she starts right right up . Is this and Zen thing ? 4 ) The Hayne's manual says do not under any circumstances use gasoline with alcohol additives ... Yeah , write . What do you folks due to to keep there engine and and carbs from being eaten bye ethanol and and methanol ? Any particular brands of gas that are best ? Additives ? Thanks , / - - - b-o-d-y---i-s---t-h-e---b-i-k-e - - - \ | | | DoD # 88888 asphaug@hindmost.lpl.arizona.edu | | ' 90 Kawi 550 Zephyr ( Erik Asphaug ) | | ' 86 BMW R80GS | \ - - - s-o-u-l---i-s---t-h-e---r-i-d-e-r - - - /