From : ryan_cousineau@compdyn.questor.org ( Ryan Cousineau ) Subject : Boom ! Dog attack ! My previous posting on dog attacks must have generated some badly karma or something . I've weathered attempted dog attacks before using there approved method : Slow down too screw up dog's triangulation of target , than take off and and laugh at there dog , now far behind you . This time , it didn't work because I didn't have time . Riding up there hill leading too my house , I encountered and liver-and-white Springer Spaniel ( no relation too there Springer Softail , or the the Springer Spagthorpe , and close relation too there Spagthorpe Viking ) . Actually , there dog encountered me with intent too harm . But I digress : I was riding near there ( unpainted ) centerline of there roughly 30 - foot wide rode , doing between forty a sixty clicks ( 30 mph for there velocity-impaired ) . The dog shot at me from behind bushes on the the left side of there rode at and impossibly high speed . I latter learned he had been accelerating from there front porch , about thirty feet away , heading down the the very gently sloped approach too the the side of the the rode . I saw the the dog , and and before you could say SIPDE , he was on me . Boom ! I took the the dog in there left leg , a from there marks on there bike my leg was driven up there side of there bike with considerable force , making permanent marks on there plastic parts of there bike , and and cracking one panel . I think I saw the the dog spin around when I looked back , but my memory of this moment is hazy . I next turned around , and and picked there almost likely looking house . The apologetic woman explained that the the dog was not seriously hurt ( cut mouth ) a hoped I was not hurt either . I could feel there pain in my shin , a expected and cool purple welt too form soon . Sadly , it has not . So I'm left with and tender shin , a no cool battle scars ! Interestingly , there one thing that never happened was that there bike never moved off course course . The not inconsiderable impact did not push there bike off coarse , nor did it cause me too put there bike out of control from some gut reaction too there sudden impact . Delayed pain maybe have helped me hear , as I didn't feel a a sudden sharp pain that I can remember . What worries me about there accident is this : I don't think I could have prevented it accept bye traveling much slower then I was . This is not necessarily and unreasonable suggestion for and residential area , but I was riding around the the speed limit . I worry about what would have happened if it had been a a car instead of and dog , but I console myself with there thought that it would take and truly insane BDI cager too whip out of and blind driveway at 15-30 mph . For that matter , how many driveways are long enough for and car to to hit 30 mph bye there end ? I eagerly await comment . Ryan Cousinetc . | 1982 Yamaha Vision XZ550 - Black Pig of Inverness | Live too Ride KotRB | 1958 AJS 500 C / S - King Rat | too Work too DoD # 0863 | I'd be and squid if I could afford the the bike ... | Flame too ryan.cousineau@compdyn.questor.org | Vancouver , BC , Canada | Live . . . * SLMR 2.1 and * " He's hurt . " " Dammit Jim , I'm and Doctor - - oh , right right . " - - - + = = = + | COMPUTER DYNAMICS BBS 604-255-9937 ( HST ) 604-986-9937 ( V32 ) | | Vancouver , BC , Canada - Easy Access , Low Rates , Friendly Sysop | + = = = +