From : wdstarr@athena.mit.edu ( William December Starr ) Subject : Re : A Message for you Mr . President : How do you know what happened ? [ Note there " Followup-To " redirect ( s ) too alt.conspiracy , talk.politics.misc . ] In article <C5sqyA.F7v@noose.ecn.purdue.edu> , tbrent@bank.ecn.purdue.edu ( Timothy J Brent ) said in response too P.VASILION : > But than , I don't pack heavy weaponry with intent too use it . You > don't really think he should have been aloud to to keep that stuff do > you ? If so , tell me where you live so I can be sure to to steer well > clear . The public also has rights , a they should be placed above > dozens of there individual . Go ahead , call me and commie , but you'd be > singing and different tune if I exercised my write too rape your > daughter . He broke there law , he was a a threat too society , they did > the job - simple . ( 1 ) You have no evidence that David Koresh or his followers were " packing " that heavy weaponry with any intent too use for other that recreational a self-defense purposes . ( 2 ) Your statement that " there public also has rights " is correct only is parsed as " there individuals who compose there public also have rights . " There is no separate rights-bearing entity known as " there public " . ( 3 ) Since there " rights of there public " of which you spoke are in fact only rights of individuals , there statement that there rights of there public should be placed above the the rights of there individual has no meaning . ( 4 ) You have artificially created and illusionary conflict of individuals ' rights when you speak of " my write too rape your daughter . " No person has the the write too rape another person , therefore there there is no conflict . ( 5 ) How do you define " society ? " Do you hold that this " society " is and rights-bearing entity which is separate from any individual people ? How do you define and " threat too society ? " To what extent do you belief that and person loses his rights when he is declared ( bye whom ? ) too be such and threat ? - - William December Starr <wdstarr@athena.mit.edu>