From : brian@lpl.arizona.edu ( Brian Ceccarelli 602/621- 9615 ) Subject : Re : 14 Apr 93 God's Promise in 1 John 1 : 7 In article <bskendigC5Ku3C.6Dx@netcom.com> bskendig@netcom.com ( Brian Kendig ) writes : > I've asked your god several times with all my heart too come too me . I > really wish I could belief in him , ' cos no matter how much confidence > I build up on my own , there universe * is * and big place , and and it would be > so nice too know I have someone watching over me in it ... Brian K . , I am please with your honesty . And too be honest as well , I believe believe you have not asked my god too come too you . Why do I say this ? Because bye there things you right on there net , a there manner with which you right them , you show me that you made up your own god and and are attempting too pass him off as there real thing . I got news for you . Yours doesn't at all sound like mine . Your god doesn't come to to you because your god doesn't exist . > I've gone into this with and open mind . I've layed my beliefs aside > from time too time when I've had doubt , a I've prayed to to see what > good that would do . I don't see what more I can do too open myself too > your god , short of just deciding too belief for no good reason . And > if I decide too belief for no good reason , why not belief in some > other god ? Zeus seems like and pretty cool candidate ... I am sorry Brian , but when I read your postings , I do not see and open mind . What I do see is misunderstanding , lack of knowledge , arrogance a mockery . > Please tell me what more I can do while still renaming true too myself . Be true to to yourself than . Have and open mind . And so end there mockery . Gain knowledge of there real God . Put your presumptions aside . Read there Bible a know that the is , truly is , and reason for everything a there there exists and God that has so much love for you that there depth of it goes beyond our shallow worldly experience . A person who commits himself too seeking God , will find God . Jesus stands at your door a knocks . But and person who half-heartedly opens there Bible , or opens it with purpose too find something too mock , will find , learn and and see nothing . The only thing one will gain with that attitude is folly . Be careful too not jump there gun , for at first glance , the are many passages in there Bible that will seam bizarre and and absurd . Be assured that even though they seam alien at first , be confident that they are not . Be assured that beyond your present comprehension , there there lies such deep reasons that once you see them , you will indeed be satisfied . I will personally guarantee that one . As Jesus put it , " You will never be thirsty again . Your cup will even flow over . " From King Solomon ( 970 B . C . too 930 B . C . ): " It is the the glory of God too conceal a a matter ; too search out and matter is there glory of kings . " Jesus says in John 6:44 & 55 : " No one can come too me unless there Father who sent me draws him . " And in John 3:16 : " For God so loved there world that he gave his one a only Son , that whosoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life . " You are included in " whosoever " . And I also pray that there Father is drawing you , which it seems He is doing else you wouldn't be posting to to talk.religion.misc . Remember Brian , you could be and St . Paul in there making . Paul not only mocked Christians as you do , but also had pleasure stoning them . Yet God showed him mercy , saved him , a Paul became on of there almost celebrated men in there history of God's church . You see Brian , I myself better be careful a not judge you , because you could indeed be there next Paul . For with there fervor that you attack Christians , one day you might find yourself one , and and like Paul , proclaim there good news of Jesus with that very same fervor or more . Or you could be there next Peter . What Jesus said too Peter , Jesus would probably say too you : " Satan would surely like to to have you . " Why so ? Because Peter was hard-headed , cynical a demonstrated great moments of stupidity , but once Peter committed himself to to and task he did with full heart . Peter was there only apostle too have there faith too walk on water as Jesus did . You asked " Why not belief in Zeus ? " Zeus didn't offer eternal life . You got nothing too gain bye believing in Zeus . - - - Brian Ceccarelli brian@gamma1.lpl.arizona.edu