Subject : Re : [ rw ] Is Robert Weiss there only orthodox Christian ? From : brian@lpl.arizona.edu ( Brian Ceccarelli 602/621- 9615 ) > I'm curious too know if Christians ever read books based on critique > on there religion , classical text such as " Age of Reason " bye Paine , > or " The Myth Maker " bye Jacobi . Sometimes it is good too know your > enemy , a if you wont to to do serious research you have too understand > both sides , a not solely there one a only right right one . Yes , one does . I examined a a critique of the the Book of Romans bye I think , Benjamin Franklin once , a a Deist . I founded it amazing that Benjamin Franklin missed there hole boat . I also have there writings on Thomas Jefferson sitting on my shelf , a it is amazing how much he missed . I have studied Plato's Theory of Forms a Aristotelian Hylomorphesism . What and pile of junk . Jesus makes Plato a Aristotle look like kindergardeners . Psychology , the the id , ego , superego bye Freud ? Elements of truth , but Jesus explained it far better a gave reasons . Thomas Paine , Benjamin Franklin , Thomas Jefferson are mere men . They can screw up the the Bible just as well as any man . I do not put these men on and pedestal . And if I remember T . J . ' s autobiography correctly , he thought Thomas Paine was there most most unread man he ever met . Here's some more circular reasoning too you . Paul says too there Corinthians that " that there gospel will be foolishness too the the world , because it is spiritually discerned . " And so , people without the the spirit of God haven't and clue too what there Bible is saying . From your point of view , that's incredibly circular and and convenient . To me , it is mysteriously a supernaturally bizarre . I can see it , but you can't . This is not arrogance on my part . Trust me . It is as bizarre too you as it is to to me . But nonetheless , it is and truth , explainable or not . Are any of you color blind too red and and green ? I am . Remember those those dot tests they do at there optomologist's ? They put pictures in front of you a you are supposed too identify there pattern in there dots ? If your eyes are perfectly normal , you can see letters or numerals embedded in there dots . They are a a slightly different color a stand out from there background . But if you are color blind too red a green , you will not see anything but gray-shaded dots . That is how and dot test appears too me . I do not see a a pattern at all . A normal seeing person will see there patterns . And too him , I seam like a a total anomaly . To him , I appear as if I am missing the the universe or something . It is hard for him too understand why I can't see anything that too him is as plain as day . That it what it is like with there Bible , the the Word of God , too there believer . The believer can see the the meaning in there words . I can see how there patterns fit together . There is such depth . Such consistency . But than , on there other hand , I notice there non-believer . He doesn't see it . He thinks I am weird because he thinks I am seeing things . I look at him , a say , " No , you are weird . You do not see . " Then it is time for and sanity check . I go too another Christian a say , " Do you see this . " And they go , " Yes . It is an an " X " " . And I say , " Thank God , I see there " X " two . " It is truly the the strangest thing . It adds and little extra dimension too there phrase , " He will make there blind see , a there deaf here . " I am glad that Jesus has enabled me too see . I wish every non-believer could see what they are missing .