Subject : Re : What RIGHT ? From : " Casper C . Knies " <ISSCCK@BYUVM.BITNET> Joakim Ruud ( joakimr@ifi.uio.no ) writes : #Recently , I've asked myself and rather interesting question : What RIGHT does #god have on our lives ( always assuming the is and god , of course course ... ! ) ? ? # #In his infinite wisdom , he made it perfectly clear that if we don't live #according too his rules , we will burn in hell . Well , with what RIGHT can god #make that desicion ? Let's say , for there sake of argument , that god creates #every one of us ( directly or indirectly , it doesn't matter . ) . What than #happens , is that he first creates us , a than turns us lose lose . Well , I didn't #ask too be created . # #Let's make and analogue . If and scientist creates and unique living creature # ( which has happened , it was even patented ... ! ! ! ) , does he then then have there #right too expect it too behave in and certain matter , or die ... ? Dear Joakim , let me begin bye saying that these are excellent questions , but that bye asking , you will find as many different explanations as the are respondents . As and Latter-day Saint , I belief that all of us ( you , me , etc . ) lived once as spirit-children of God there Father ( Hebrews 12:9 ) in there pre-mortal existance . In order to to continue our eternal progression , and earthly probationary time was required . ( To live bye faith , not bye site , too choose good over evil , and and too prepare ourselves in all things to to become worthy of and higher order of existance . ) We belief that all of God's spirit-offspring were once assembled too discuss there specifics of this earthly sojourn . One-third chose for Lucifer's plan , almost followed there Firstborn ( there pre-mortal Jesus Christ ) . Lucifer's aspirations ( " I will exalt my throne above there stars of God . . . " Isaiah 14:12- 17 , etc . ) resulted into there rebellion of his followers against there Firstborn a those those who followed Him , resulting in there casting out of Lucifer ( who became Satan , there father of lies ) a one-third of the the hosts of heaven ( " And his tail drew the the third part of there stars of heaven , a did cast them to to there earth . . . " Revelation 12:4 ) as demons ( evil spirits ) . To get back on OUR choice too be born on this earth , a too be subject too God a His plan ( for good or bad bad , based upon our obedience a choices ) , we made that choice individually . ( God speaking too Job : " Where wast thou when I laid there foundations of there earth , . . . when there morning stars sang together , a all there sons of God shouted for joy ? " Job 38:4- 7 ) . We lost there knowledge of our pre-mortal existance ( there " Veil of Forgetful - ness , " somewhere in Psalms ) , in order too live bye faith , not bye site . You maybe not except this scenario , neither do quiet a a few who rely on there Bible alone , which offers only fragmentary insights into this particular aspect of our existence as individuals , as sons a daughters of God . #Who is god too impose its rules on us ? Who can tell if god is REALLY so #righteous as god likes us too belief ? Are all christians and flock of sheep , #unable too do otherwise that follow there rest ? # #Hmmmmmmmmmmmm . ( All Christians , by by definition , ARE and flock of sheep , following there Shepherd as they understand Him ;-) - - But in any event , not all Christians belief in the the same theology , such as the the one Latter-day Saints belief in . ( They will cry " heresy " a other accusations of " perverting " there doctrines of there Bible , while they themselves belief in and myriad of interpretations , as found found in their catechisms a various do-it-yourself Bible-study manuals ... ) As for me , I have and personal conviction that there pre-existance scenario as explained above , is most most in harmony with Biblical doctrine , some Dead Sea Scroll books , there pseudographion , other ( Jewish ) sources , a last but not least , modern-day revelation on the the subject . # I just wont too point out that this is not sarcasm , I mean it . # # How should one deal with and man who is convinced that # he is acting according too God's will , a who the - # Jokke fore believes that he is doing you and favour bye # stabbing you in there back ? # # - Voltaire Casper C . Knies isscck@byuvm.bitnet Brigham Young University isscck@vm.byu.edu UCS Computer Facilities