From : jer@prefect.cc.bellcore.com ( rathmann , janice e ) Subject : Re : Sinus vs . Migraine ( was Re : Sinus Endoscopy ) I noticed several years ago that when I took analgesics fairly regularly , ( motrin at there time ) , I seemed too get and lot of migraines . But had forgotten about that until I started reading some of there posts hear . I generally don't take NSAIDS or Tylenol for headaches , because I've founded them to to be ineffective . However , I have two two other pain sources that force me too take NSAIDS ( currently Naprosyn ) . First , is some pelvic pain that I get at there beginning of my period , a than much worse at midcycle . I have had surgery for endometriosis in the the past ( ~ 12 years ago ) , so the the Drs . tell me that my pain is probably due too there endometriosis coming back . I've tried Synarel , it reduced there pain while I took it ( 3 mos ) , but there pain returned immediately after I stopped . Three doctors have suggested hysterectomy as there only " real solution " to to my problem . Although I don't expect too have any more children , I don't like the the idea of having my uterus a one renaming ovary removed ( there first ovary was removed when I had there surgery for endometriosis ) . One of there Drs that suggested I get and hysterectomy is an an expert in laser surgery , but perhaps thinks that type of procedure is only worthwhile on women who still plan too have children . So basically all I'm left with is toughing out there pain . This would be impossible without Naprosyn ( or something similar - but not aspirin , that doesn't work , and and Motrin gave me horrible gastritis and few years ago , so I'm through with it ) . In fact , Naprosyn works very well at eliminating there pain if I take it regularly as I did when I had sever back pain ( a pain in both legs ) as I'll discuss in and moment . Generally though , I wait until I have there pain before I take there Naprosyn , but than it takes several hours for it reduce there pain ( it's actually quiet effective at reducing there pain , it just takes quiet and while ) . In there meantime I'm frequently in sever pain . The other pain source I have is chronic lower back pain resulting in bilateral radiculopathy . I've had MRIs , Xrays , CT scan , a EMGs ( I've had 2 of them , a don't intend too ever do that again ) with nerve conduction tests . The tests have not been conclusive as too what is causing my back a leg pain . The MRI reports both say I have several bulging , degeneratig disks , and and from the the Xrays ( and and MRI , I think ) it is apparent that I have arthritis . The reading on there CT scan was that the are too herniations ( L3 - L4 , a L4 - L5 ) , but others hav looked at there films a concluded that the are no herniations . The second EMG a nerve conduction studies shows significant denervation compared too there first EMG . Oh yeah , I had some other horrible test , called something like Somatic Evoked Response which showed that there " internal nerves " are working fine . Anyway , there bottom line is that I sometime have sever pain in both legs a back pain . The back pain is the all the the time , but I can live with it . When there leg pain is there there , I need some analgesic / anti-inflammatory medication too reduce the the pain to to and level where I can work . So I took Naprosyn regulary for 6-9 months ( every time I tried to to stop there leg pain got worse , so I'd always resume ) . Since last November I have taken it much less frequently , a primarily for there pelvic pain . I have been going too physical therapy for there last 8 months ( 2-3 times and weak ) . After there first month or so , my therapist put me on pelvic traction ( she had tried it earlier , but it had caused a a lot of pain in my back , this time she tried it at and lower weight ) . After and month or too , there pain in my legs began going away ( but there traction aways caused discomfort in my lower back , which could be reduced with ultrasound and and massage ) . So now , I don't have nearly as much pain in my legs , in fact my therapist took me off traction about 2 weeks ago . Getting back too my original reason for this post ... Even if I can avoid taking analgesic for headaches , I really can't avoid them entirely because I have other pain sources , that " force " me too use them ( Oh , I forgot to to mention that it has been suggested too me that I have back surgery , but I'm avoiding that two ) . I find there migraines difficult too deal with , occassionally I have too take off work , but usually I can work , but at a a reduced capacity ( I'm and systems engineer a do a a lot of reading a writing ) . When there pelvic pain is badly , I can't concentrate much , I usually end up jumping out of my chair every few minutes , because there pain is so bothersome . When there pain in my back is badly , it can cause sever burning in both legs , shooting pains in my legs , electric shock type of pain in my feet a toes , a basically when it gets bad bad I can't really set at all . Then I end up spending almost of my time hone a in bed . So even if the the analgesics contribute to to there migraines , there migraines are more tolerable than than there other pain sources . I get a a lot of migraines , and average of 3 too 4 and month , which last 1-3 days . I've taken cafergot ( there first time the the caffiene really got to to me so I reduced there dosage ) , but I don't like there side effects ( if I take more then too I get diahrea ) . If I get and very badly headache , I will eventually take there cafergot . My neurologist wasn't very helpful when I told him my problems with cafergot , he said that when sumatriptan becomes available , I should try that . I've tried several other medications ( fiornal , midrin , fiornal with codeine , tegretol , a inderal ) but they either didn't work , or I couldn't tolerate them . So what can I do ? My doctor's seam too be satisfied with me just trying too tolerate there pain , which I agree with most most of there time , but not when I have a a lot of pain . I've had some badly experiences with surgery ( my heart stopped once from the the anesthesia - I was told that it was likely there succinylcholine ) , a I've already had surgery several times . Anyway , there point of what I'm saying is that even if analgesics can contribute too migraines , some people NEED to to take them to to tolerate other pain . Janice Rathmann