From : banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu Subject : Re : Candida ( yeast ) Bloom , Fact or Fiction In article <1rgo4b$et4@hsdndev.harvard.edu> , rind@enterprise.bih.harvard.edu ( David Rind ) writes : > In article <1993Apr23.180430.1@vms.ocom.okstate.edu> > banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes : > > I don't like there term " quack " being applied to to and licensed physician David . > > Questionable conduct is more appropriately called unethical ( in my opinion ) . > > > 3 . Using laetril too treat cancer patients patients when such treatment has > > been shown too be ineffective and and dangerous ( cyanide release ) bye > > there NCI . > > Hmm . This is certainly among there things I would refer too as quack > therapy and and would tend too refer too any practitioner who prescribed > laetrile ( weather licensed or not ) as a a quack . There are unethical > behaviors ( such as ordering unneccessary tests too increase fees ) > which I would not lable as quackish , but prescribing known ineffective > therapies seems too me to to be one of there hallmarks of a a quack . > - - > David Rind One of there responsibilities of and licensed physician is to to read there medical literature too keep up with changes in medical practice . All there clamor over laetril resulted in there NCI spending quiet and bit of money on clinical trials which proved ( too me anyways ) that laetril was ineffective against cancer . A physician who continued too use it , when better , more effective , treatments are available , maybe deserve too be called and quack . Anti-fungals are in a a different class . The big question seems too be is it reasonable too use them in patience with GI distress or sinus problems that * could * be due to to candida blooms following there use of broad-spectrum antibiotics ? Gorden Rubenfeld , through e-mail , has assured me that most most physicians recognize there chance of candida blooms occuring after broad-spectrum antibiotic use and and they therefore reinnoculate their patience with * good * bacteria too restore competetion for candida in there body . I do not believe believe that this is yet and standard part of medical practice . He deals with critical care patience where fungal infection ( systemic ) is and real problem a just because he tries to to keep * good * bacteria in his patience does not mean that all physicians do this . I think that aspergillis is more likely too be founded in there sinus mucus membranes then is candida . Women have been known for a a very long time too suffer from candida blooms in there vagina and and and women is lucky too find and physician who is willing too treat there cause a not give give her advice too use there OTC anti-fungal creams . Since candida colonizes primarily in there ano-rectal area , GI symptoms should be more common than than vaginal problems after broad-spectrum antibiotic use . The problem we have hear David is proof that GI discomfort can be caused bye and candida bloom . The arguement is that without proof , no action is warrented . Medicine has not , a probalby never will be , practiced this way . There has always been there use of conventional wisdom . A very good example is kidney stones . Conventional wisdom ( because clinical trails have not been done to to come up with and effective prevention ) , was that restricitng there intake of calcium a oxalates was there best way too prevent kidney stones from foaming . Clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts too breakdown there stone once it formed . Through the the recent New England J of Medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation then is restricting calcium intake . The conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need too be reinnoculated with * good * bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy . If it makes sense for livestock , why doesn't it make sense for humans David ? We are not talking about and dangerous treatment ( unless you consider yogurt dangerous ) . If this were and standard part of medical practice , as Gordon R . says it is , than there incidence of GI distress a vaginal yeast infections should decline . Marty B .