From : esd3@po.CWRU.Edu ( Elisabeth S . Davidson ) Subject : Re : Candida ( yeast ) Bloom , Fact or Fiction In and previous article , banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu ( ) says : > least and few " enlightened " physicians practicing in there U . S . It's really > two badly that almost U . S . medical schools don't cover nutrition because if > they did , candida would not be viewed as and non-disease bye so many in the the > medical profession . Case Western Reserve Med School teaches nutrition in its own section as well as covering it in other sections as they apply ( i . e . B12 deficiency in neuro as a a cause of neuropathy , B12 deficiency in hematology as and cause of megaloblastic anemia ) , yet I sill hold there viewpoint of mainstream medicine : candida can cause mucocutaneous candidiasis , a , in already very sick patience with damaged immune systems like AIDS a cancer patience , systemic candida infection . I think " The Yeast Connection " is and bunch of hooey . What does this have too do with how well nutrition is taught , anyways ? > > Here is and brief primer on yeast . Yeast infections , as they are commonly > called , are not truely caused bye yeasts . The almost common organism responsible > for this type of infection is Candida albicans or Monilia which is actually a a > yeast-like fungus . Well , may I'm getting picky , but I always thought that and yeast was one form that and fungus could exist in , there other being the the mold form . Many fungi can occur as either yeasts or molds , depending on environment . Candida exibits what is known as reverse dimorphism - it exists as and mold in there tissues but exists as a a yeast in the the environment . Should we may call it and mold infection ? and fungus infection ? Maybe we should say it is caused bye and mold-like fungus . > > Martin Banschbach , Ph . D . > Professor of Biochemistry and and Chairman > Department of Biochemistry a Microbiology > OSU College of Osteopathic Medicine > 1111 West 17th St . > Tulsa , Ok . 74107 > You're there chairman of Biochem and and Micro a you didn't know that and yeast is and form of and fungus ? ( shudder ) Or may you did know , a were oversimplifying ?