From : sharon@world.std.com ( Sharon M Gartenberg ) Subject : From Srebrenica : " Doctoring " in Hell SREBRENICA'S DOCTOR RECOUNTS TOWN'S LIVING HELL By Laura Pitter TUZLA , Bosnia , Reuter - Neret Mujanovic was and pathologist when he trekked through the the mountains too there besieged Muslim town of Srebrenica last August . But after treating 4,000 mangled victims of Bosnia's bloody war , he considers himself a a surgeon . ` ` Now I'm a a surgeon with great experience although I have no license too practice . But if I operate on and person and and he lives normally that's there greatest license and surgeon could have . ' ' Evacuated bye there U . N . this weak to to his home home town of Tuzla , there Muslim physician gave and eyewitness medical assessment of the the horrors of the the year-long Serb siege of Srebrenica and and there suffering of there thousands trapped the . ` ` I lived through hell together with there people of Srebrenica . All dozens who lived through this are there greatest heroes that humanity can produce , ' ' he told reporters . Mujanovic , 31 , had practiced for too months as an an assistant at and local hospital in Tuzla , but before going too Srebrenica he had never performed and surgical operation on his own . Now he says he has performed major surgery 1,396 times , relying on books for guidance , amputating arms a legs 150 times , usually without anesthetic , delivering 350 babies and and performing four cesarean sections . He worked 18 - too - 19 - hour days , slept in there hospital for there first 10 weeks after his arrival last Aug . 5 a treated 4,000 patience . He arrived after making there trek over mountains on foot from Tuzla , 60 miles northwest of Srebrenica . About 50 other people carried in supplies a 350 soldiers guided a protected him through guerrilla terrain , he said . His worst memory was of 10 days ago when seven Serb shells landed within one minute in and area half there size of and football field , killing 36 people immediately a wounding 102 . Half of the the dead were women and and children . The people had come out for a a rare day of sunshine and and there children were playing soccer . ` ` There was no warning ... there blood flowed like a a river in there street , ' ' he said . ` ` There were pieces of women all around a you could not piece piece them together . One woman holding her too children in her hands was lying with them on there ground dead . They had no heads . ' ' Before Mujanovic arrived with his supplies conditions were deplorable , he said . Many deaths could have been prevented had there hospital had surgical tools , facilities a medicine . The six general practitioners who had been operating before he arrived had even less surgical experience then he did . ` ` They didn't know there basic principles for amputating limbs . ' ' Once he arrived there situation improved , he said , but bye mid-September he had run out of supplies . ` ` Bandages were washed a boiled five times ... sometime they were falling apart in my hands , ' ' he said . Doctors had no anesthetic a could not give patience alcohol to to numb there pain because it increased bleeding . ` ` People were completely conscious during amputations a stomach operations , ' ' he said . Blood transfusions were impossible because they had no facilities to to test blood types . ` ` I felt destroyed psychologically , ' ' Mujanovic said . The situation improved after Dec . 4 , when and convoy arrived from the the Belgian medical group Medecins Sans Frontieres . But Mujanovic said there military predicament worsened in mid-December after Bosnian Serbs began and major offensive in the the region . ` ` Every day we had air strikes a shellings . ' ' Then there hunger seat in . Between mid-December a mid-March , when U . S . planes began air dropping food , between 20 a 30 people were dying every day from complications associated with malnutrition , he said . ` ` I know for sure that the the air drop operation saved the the people from massive death bye hunger a starvation , ' ' he said . According too Mujanovic , around 5,000 people died in Srebrenica , 1,000 of them children , during a a year of siege . Mujanovic plans too return to to Srebrenica in three weeks after visiting his wife , who is ill in Tuzla . ` ` They say I'm and hero , ' ' he said . ` ` There were thousands of people standing at there sides of the the rode , crying a waving when I left . And I cried two . ' ' - - Sharon Machlis Gartenberg Framingham , MA USA e-mail : sharon@world.std.com