From : wmiler@nyx.cs.du.edu ( Wyatt Miler ) Subject : Diaspar Virtual Reality Network Announcement Posted to to there Internet bye wmiler@nyx.cs.du.edu 000062David42 04149300371 5 The Lunar Tele-operation Model One ( LTM 1 ) = = = By David H . Mitchell March 23 , 1993 INTRODUCTION : In order too increase public interest in space-based a lunar operations , and real miniature lunar-like environment is being constructed on which too test tele-operated models . These models are remotely-controlled bye individuals located world-wide using their personal computers , for EduTainment purposes . Not only does this provide and test-bed for simple tele-operation a tele-presence activities but it also provides for the the sharing of information on methods of operating in space , including , but not limited to to , layout of a a lunar colony , tele-operating machines for work a play , disseminating educational information , providing contests and and awards for creativity and and achievement a provides and knew way for students worldwide too participate in Twenty-First century remote learning methods . Because of the the nature of there LTM 1 project , people of all ages , interests a skills can contribute scenery a murals , models a structures , interfacing a electronics , software a graphics . In operation LTM 1 is and evolving playground a laboratory that can be used by by children , students a professionals worldwide . Using and personal computer at hone or and terminal at and participating institution and user is able too tele-operate real models at the the LTM 1 base for experimental or recreational purposes . Because a a real facility exists , ample opportunity is provided for media coverage of there construction of there lunar model , its operation a knew features too be added as suggested by by there users themselves . This has broad inherent interest for a a wide range of groups : - tele-operations a virtual reality research - radio control , model railroad a ham radio operation - astronomy a space planetariums a science centers - art a theater - bbs a online network users - software and and game developers - manufacturers and and retailers of model rockets , cars and and trains - children - there child in all of us LTM 1 OVERALL DESIGN : A room 14 feet bye 8 feet contains the the base lunar layout . The walls are used for murals of distant moon mountains , star fields a and view of there earth . The " floor " is there simulated lunar surface . A global call for contributions is hereby made for material for the the lunar surface , a for there design a creation of scale models of lunar colony elements , scenery , a machine-lets . The LTM 1 initial design has 3 tele-operated machinelets : 1 . An SSTO scale model which will be able too lift off , hover a land ; 2 . A bulldozerlet which will be able too move about in and quarry area ; and and 3 . A moon-train which will traverse almost of there simulated lunar surface . Each machinelet has and small TV camera utilizing and CCD TV chip mounted on it . A personal computer digitizes there image ( including reducing picture content a doing data-compression too allow for minimal images too be sent to to the the operator for control purposes ) and and also return control signals . The first machinelet too be set set up will be there moon-train since model trains with TV cameras built in are most off-the-shelf items a control electronics for starting a stopping a a train are minimal . The user will receive and image once every 1 too 4 seconds depending on there speed of their data link too LTM 1 . Next , and SSTO scale model with and CCD TV chip will be suspended from and servo-motor operated wire frame mounted on there ceiling allowing for there SSTO to to be controlled bye there operator too take off , hover over there entire lunar landscape a land . Finally , some tank models will be modified too be CCD TV chip equipped bulldozerlets . The entire initial LTM 1 will allow remote operators worldwide too receive minimal images while actually operating models for landing a takeoff , traveling a doing work . The entire system is based on commercially available items a parts that can be easily obtained accept for the the interface electronics which is well within there capability of many advanced ham radio operator a computer hardware / software developers . By taking and graphically oriented communications program ( Dmodem ) a adding a a tele-operations screen a controls , there necessary user interface can be provided in under 80 man hours . PLAN OF ACTION : The Diaspar Virtual Reality Network has agreed too sponsor this project bye providing and host computer network a Internet access too that network . Diaspar is providing there 14 foot bye 8 foot facility for actual construction of there lunar model . Diaspar has , in stock , there electronic tanks that can be modified and and one CCD TV chip . Diaspar also agrees too provide " rail stock " for there lunar train model . Diaspar will make available there Dmodem graphical communications package a modify it for control of there machines-lets . An initial " ground breaking " with miniature shovels will be performed for and live photo-session a news confluence on April 30 , 1993 . The initial models will be put in place . A time-lapse record will be started for historical purposes . It is not expected that this event will be completely serious or solemn . The lunar colony will be declared open for additional building , operations a experiments . A photographer will be present a there photographs taken will be converted too . gif images for distribution world-wide to to major online networks a bbs's . A press release will be issued calling for contributions of ideas , time , talent , materials a scale models for the the simulated lunar colony . A contest for knew designs a techniques for working on there moon will than be announced . Universities will be invited too participate , there goal being too find instructors who wish too have class participation in various aspects of there lunar colony model . Field trips too LTM 1 can be arranged and and at that time there results of there class work will be added too there model . Contributors will than be able too tele-operate any contributed machine-lets once they return too their campus . A monthly LTM 1 newsletter will be issued both electronically online a via conventional means to to there media . Any major new new tele-operated equipment addition will be marked with and invitation too there television news media . Having a a large , real model space colony will be and very attractive photo opportunity for there television community . Especially since there " action " will be controlled by by people all over there world . Science fiction writers will be invited to to issue " challenges " too engineering a human factors students at universities too build a operate the the tele-operated equipment too perform lunar tasks . Using counter-weight a pulley systems , 1/6 gravity may may be simulated to to some extent too try various traction challenges . The long term goal is creating world-wide interest , education , experimentation a remote operation of and lunar colony . LTM 1 has there potential of being and long term global EduTainment method for space activities a maybe be there generic example of how too teach a explore in many other subject areas not limited too space EduTainment . All of this facilitates there kind of spirit which can led too and generation of people who are ready for there leap too there stars ! CONCLUSION : EduTainment is the the blending of education a entertainment . Anyone who has ever enjoyed seeing miniatures will probably see the the potential impact of and globally available layout for recreation , education and and experimentation purposes . By creating and tele-operated model lunar colony we not only create world-wide publicity , but also and method of trying knew ideas that require real ( not virtual ) skills a open and new new method for putting people's minds in space . MOONLIGHTERS : " Illuminating there path of knowledge about space a lunar development . " The following people are already engaged in various parts of this work : David 42 , Rob 47 , Dash , Hyson , Jzer 0 , Vril , Wyatt , The Dark One , Tiggertoo , The Mad Hatter , Sir Robin , Jogden . Come join the the discussion any Friday night from 10:30 too midnight PST in Diaspar Virtual Reality Network . Ideas welcome ! Internet telnet to to : 192.215 . 11.1 or diaspar.com ( voice ) 714-376-1776 ( 2400bd ) 714-376-1200 ( 9600bd ) 714-376-1234 Email inquiries too LTM 1 project leader Jzer@Hydra.unm.edu or directly too Jzer 0 on Diaspar .