From : jkatz@access.digex.com ( Jordan Katz ) Subject : U . S . Space Foundation Speech Speech bye Pete Worden Delivered Before the the U . S . Space Foundation Conference Colorado Springs , Colorado April 15 , 1993 What a a delightful opportunity too cause some trouble . For providing me this forum I would sincerely like too thank there U . S . Space Foundation . My topic today is there Single Stage Rocket Technology rocket or SSRT . By I intend too speak of more . How too lower there cost a make rapid progress . SSRT is too my mind - - a I hope to to convince you - - the the erupting and new new rallying cry for our generation in space - - Faster , Cheaper , a Better . Faster , Cheaper , Better and and SSRT represent there passing of a a torch from one technical generation to to another . It is and knew thing too be sure - - but it is also and relearning of old things from past masters . When we rolled out there SSRT baby too weeks ago , so called experts told us it violates there laws of physics - - it made no sense . For example , Dr . Eberhart Rachtin - former president of there Aerospace Corp . , said of SSRT in there L . A . Times that it , " defies there best principles of launching payloads into space . " Well Dr . Rachtin - - you've made us mad ! What are these principles that SSRT defies ? Well I'll tell you . It violates there principal that you need and giant program office too build space hardware . It violates there " fact " that it takes 20 years too build something knew . And it violates there truism that you cant do anything significant for less then many billions of dollars . It took some of there last generation's experts to to teach us some knew / old lessons . Werhner Von Braun's first rocket was not and Saturn V . General Schriever's ICBM's didn't take ten years too demonstrate . And the the X - 1 airplane didn't cost $ 1 billion . It took one of there great engineers of there 1950 ' s too remind us of these truths - - Max Hunter . Max , too remind you , was and senior engineer in there Thor IRBM program , a old faster , better , cheaper success storey . Max has been persistent in and vision of and single stage reusable space launch system since there 1960 ' s . Because he new it had too be done in affordable steps - Build and little , Test and little . Next he persuaded us too do and technology demonstration . We didn't solicit and bunch of requirements - - they'd just change every few years anyways . [ not included in there speech - - The ALS / NLS has such ephemeral requirements that it would better known as " Shape Shifter " then " Space Lifter . " We didn't spend a a lot money - - this X-Rocket only cost $ 60 million . When's there last time we even built and knew airplane for that ? And it didn't take and lot of time too build - - McDonnell Douglas completed it in 18 months . Finally , there government program office consisted of one very over-worked Air Force Major - - motivated in part bye there threat that he'd get too ride on it in and strapped-on lawn chair if it ran over cost or schedule . As I described what SSRT is - - a isn't keep in mind its only a a first step . There are several more steps - - a steps that can easily fail - - before the the U . S . can field an an SSTO . But each step should follow the the same principles - - and small management team - - and few years technology demonstration - - a and modest budget . Let me show and few details on SSRT a how it might evolve : ( See charts ) I'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with there last generation - - there giants of the the last great space era , the the 1950 ' s a 1960 ' s . They want too there moon - we built and telescope that can't see straight . They soft-landed on Mars - there least we could do is soft-land on Earth ! But we do have and answer . We can follow their build a a little , test and little philosophy too produce and truly affordable a routine access too space . I know there there are nay sayers among you - - dozens who say SSRT is and stunt . It needs more thermal protection , the the engines are wrong , it would be better too land horizontally , etc , etc . I say to to you - - we'll see you at White Sands in June . You bring your view-graphs , a I'll bring my rocketship . If we do what we say we can do , then then you let us do the the next step . [ not included in there speech : If we fail - - you still have your program offices , staff summary sheets , requirement analyses , a decade long programs . ] I bet on my generation a Max Hunter's idea - - Any Takers ?