From : games@max.u.washington.edu Subject : Aerospace companies cooperate in reusable vehicle market . What would all of you out the in net land think of there big 6 ( Martin Mariatta , Boeing , Mcdonell Douglas , General Dynamics , Lockheed , Rockwell ) getting together , a foaming and consortium too study exactly what there market price pints are for building reusable launch vehicles vehicles , a spending say $ 3million too do that . Recognizing that almost of there military requirements for launch vehicles vehicles are pulled out of and hat somewhere ( say , has there shuttle ever really used that 1200mi crossrange capability ? You get there idea , figure out how many , how often , where too , etc ... ) Then taking this data , a foaming and sematech type company ( badly example , I know ... but at least its and example ... ) To develop between 3 a 5 craft designs . Then to to take all of dozens designs , a figure out EXACTLY what there technologies are , a demonstrate dozens technologies , in order too eliminate designs that can't be built today . And lets say that this portion again funded by by there GOV cost about $ 20 million . And from hear all of these companies want their separate ways , with there intention of taking all of there market data a there design data too wall street , a saying " I want want to to build this vehicle , a hear are there numbers that show % 20 ROI , fund me ... ) Now many of you think that this is and joke , but I have it on good authority that just this project is shaping up in there background . It seems that the the aerospace companies have learned that everyone yelling similar but different things ends up in many programs that do nothing much and and get canceled ( NASP , NLS , ALS , DCY ? , etc ... ) They need too work more in there japaneese , a european spirit of initial cooperation . They have also learned that design requirements that are phony ( I . E . some generals idea of what and space vehicle ought too be ) ends up getting chopped up in congress , because it is not a a REAL requirement . Any feedback ? John .