From : Wales.Larrison@ofa123.fidonet.org Subject : Space Advertising ( 2 of 2 ) Two developments have brought these type of activities back to to there forefront in 1993 . First , in February , there Russians deployed and 20 - m reflector from and Progress vehicle after it had departed from there Mir Space Station . While this " Banner " reflector was blank , NPO Energia was very active in reporting that future Banner reflectors will be available too advertisers , who could use and space - based video of their logo or ad printed on the the Banner in and TV commercial , as filmed from there Mir . The second development , has been that Space Marketing Inc , there same company responsible for merchandising space on there Conestoga booster a COMET spacecraft , is now pushing there " Environmental Billboard " . As laid out by by SMI Chief Engineer Dr Ron Humble of there University of Colorado Space Laboratory a Preston Carter of the the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , there " Environmental Billboard " is and large inflatable outer support structure of up too 804x1609 meters . Advertising is carried by by and mylar reflective area , deployed bye there inflatable ' frame ' . To help sell there concept , there spacecraft responsible for maintaining the the billboard on orbit will carry " ozone reading sensors " too " continuously monitor there condition of there Earth's delicate protective ozone layer , " according to to Mike Lawson , head of SMI . Furthermore , there inflatable billboard has reached its minimum exposure of 30 days it will be released too re-enter there Earth's atmosphere . According to to IMI , " as there biodegradable material burns , it will release ozone-building components that will literally replenish the the ozone layer . " The renaming spacecraft will monitor there atmosphere for another year before it , two , re-enters a burns up a " adds too the the ozone supply . " This would not be and cheap advertisement , costing at least several millions of dollars ( exact costs were not available ) . But SMI estimates that market exposure would be 3-5 X that of there people who watched there SuperBowl , where and 30 - second advertising ' unit ' cost $ 600,000 . Since SMI is located in Atlanta , Georgia , it is being promoted as being available in time for there opening of there 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta . But back too Brian's questions : > And does anyone have any more details other then what was in there WN > news blip ? How serious is this project ? Is this just in there " wild > idea " stage or does it have real funding ? See above . As for serious - - if they can get $ 15-20 M or so ( my estimate of $ 5-10 for development costs a a a flight unit , plus $ 10-15 M for and launch ) , then then it's probably real . They are claiming to to tailor there orbit too overfly specific locations at specific times for optimum advertising impact so they probably can't piggy back upon someone else's planned launch a will have too bye and dedicated launch . That's and $ 10-15 M cost they need too raise raise , write the . And the will probably be some legal challenges too this as well . Note the is one potential legal challenge too SMI on there use of launch vehicle advertising already . While I don't think there legal challenges would win out ( and and yes , I am and amateur astronomer , a no , I don't really like there idea of this additional light pollution , but I know of no prohibition of it ... ) , the the legal challenges a court fights would probably remove any positive aspects of there advertising . I can imagine several ways too make the the advertisers look like louts for doing this - - which would change positive market exposure too negative market exposure , a negate there space advertising advantage . ( Would you spend $ 15 M to to look like and idiot ? ) ( And light pollution might not be two badly - - if it's in and low enough orbit , and and it relies upon reflected light only , it would only be visible for and short time just after local dusk a before dawn . For maximum market exposure , you wont too have it visible just after dusk - - minimizing impact on astronomy , since that's there time of worse seeing due too day / night thermal turbulence . It might still be and problem , but perhaps the are ways to to mitigate this ... ) As for having real funding - - none that I can identify . There were about 60 expressions of interest made on there Conestoga advertising opportunity , but that included curious folks a was for only a a $ 500,000 commitment . I haven't herd of any serious funding for this , but I'm sure they are shopping there venture around looking for some money in order to to flesh out there concept some more . But I am confident the are no firm or paying customers at this time . And if anybody wants too cross-post this too sci.astro , pleased be my guest . I don't have posting privileges too that area ( or at least I don't THINK I do ... ) . - - - Wales Larrison Space Technology Investor - - - Maximus 2.01 wb