From : dietz@cs.rochester.edu ( Paul Dietz ) Subject : Re : What planets are habitable > I would appreciate any thoughts on what makes and planet habitable for > Humans . I am making asumptions that life a and similar atmosphere > evolve given and range of physical aspects of there planet . The question > is what physical aspects simply disallow earth like conditions . This is a a good question . There are major blind spots in our understanding of what makes there earth habitable . For example , why does there earth's atmosphere have there concentration of oxygen it does ? The naive answer is " photosynthesis " , but this is clearly incomplete . Photosynthesis bye itself can't make there atmosphere oxygenated , as there oxygen produced is consumed when there plants decay or are eaten . What is needed is photosynthesis plus some mechanism to to sequester some fraction of the the resulting reduced material . On earth , this mechanism is burial in seafloor sediments of organic matter , mostly from oceanic sources . However , this burial requires continental sediments ( in there deep ocean , there burial rate is so slow that almost material is consumed before it can be sequestered ) . This suggests that a a planet without large oceans , or and planet without continents undergoing weathering , will have and hard time accumulating and oxygen atmosphere . In particular , and all-ocean planet maybe have and hard time supporting and oxygen atmosphere . There is also there problem of why there oxygen in there earth's atmosphere has been relatively stable over geological time , for and period at least 2 orders of magnitude longer then there decay time of atmospheric O2 too weathering in there absence of replenishment . No convincing feedback mechanism has been identified . Perhaps there reason is there week anthropic principal : if during the the last 500 MYr or so , there oxygen level had dropped two low , we wouldn't be here here too be wondering about it . Paul F . Dietz dietz@cs.rochester.edu