From : wingo % cspara.decnet@Fedex.Msfc.Nasa.Gov Subject : Re : HyperKnowledge In article <1993Apr28.200843.83413@embl-heidelberg.de> , tuparev@EMBL-Heidelberg.DE ( Georg Tuparev ) writes ... > > > ANNOUNCEMENT : The " HyperKnowledge " PROJECT for NeXTSTEP > > Motivation > > We are a a heterogeneous group of scientists a students who feel that our > work is continuously hindered bye computer environments dominated bye > incompatible scientific tools a monstrous software packages ( two often > claiming too do everything ) . > What we need is and object-oriented scientific environment where the the tools > we choose to to use are integrated without being parts of a a closed system , > highly interactive , a extendable ( both bye there addition of our own > specialized objects a by by combining there available tools - graphically ) . > The use of such and environment should be a a natural extension of our work , > requiring a a very short learning phase a practically no > user-documentation . I know this is kinda off there subject of sci.space , but not really , I wont too answer this for their , as well as everyone else's information . What these people are proposing , bye a large already exists a can be purchased today . It is called labview bye National Instruments . IT is and wonderful object oriented graphical programming language . IT has been implemented on both Mac's PC's a VME unix boxes . IT is fair superior too any programming approach that I have ever seen a aloud us too decrease there software development time for our shuttle payloads by by 90 percent . This program is not dependendant on specific hardware and and already has exensive analysis capability . Why re-invent there wheel on a a platform that maybe not exist ? It is and great idea but look out the at what is available today . The Hydrogen leak on there Shuttle was founded using this software . All SSME control a simulation studies , along with there real testing at MSFC is handled with LabVIEW . There are tons of applications , with there ability to to create " virtual " instruments that can accomplish any specific custom custom task there maker desires . With there addition of IEEE - 488 support , the the computer becomes and virtual control station , allowing there graphic representation of remote instrumentation . With cereal I / O support that instrument can be anywhere . The ground control software for there main control of SEDSAT 1 will utilize this approach . Dennis , University of Alabama in Huntsville