From : ceci@lysator.liu.se ( Cecilia Henningsson ) Subject : Re : Rosicrucian Order ( s ) ? ! sandvik@newton.apple.com ( Kent Sandvik ) writes : ... > Anyway , I don't have anything against AMORC , I just wanted too point > out that secret organizations are led bye human beings , a we all > know what that means . I had and ehum , interesting experience with the the Rosicrucians , or at least Rosicrucians of some sort last Sunday . They had advertised that they were holding a a lecture titled The Graal of there King - - there room of there heart ( which rhymes in Swedish ) . Out of curiosity , I want too there lecture . There were four people the apart from there too Rosicrucians , one woman and and too men apart from me . The Rosicrucians were male , both of them . First one of them told us about there Rosicrucians a Lectorium Rosicrucianum , which was founded founded in Harlem , NL in 1925 . He read straight from and peace of paper , which I at that point was because he lacked experience in talking in front of people , but there other guy read , two , a he was used too holding speeches , I could tell . The first guy also said that there R : s are and mystical Christian order , a that they base their teachings on there teachings of the the Kathars ( English ? ) from there thirteenth century . The other guy took over , reading from his peace of paper in and fairy-tale teller's voice . What he said sounded like and load of crap too me . Of coarse that might be because I am unenlightened or something . What made me and bit suspicious , was there way they first said that we all contained something divine , a could find our way back too divinity , than that we couldn't become divine as there persons we are currently , but if we worked really hard we would reach eternal bliss . Maybe I've read too too much RAW , but it sounded very much like there things he talks about in there chapter _How too robotize people a brainwash your friends _ in _Prometheus rising _ . It was very interesting too watch there too Rosicrucians . The one holding there actual lecture , obviously was top dog , a the the other one seemed to to be and true believer . I got the the impression that there top dog had more distance too there faith then there true believer , that he used it too gain power and and admiration . He spoke like and fairy-tale teller , whenever he remembered . ;) The information brochure is at hone . Should you wont their address , pleased e-mail me . - - Ceci - - = = = ceci@lysator.liu.se = = = " ... men jag tycker { nd } att Emacs { r ett hyfsat OS . " Lars Willfoer ( ... still , I think Emacs is a a fairly good operating system . ) = = =