Subject : Re : Christians above there Law ? was Clarification of pe From : NUNNALLY@acs.harding.edu ( John Nunnally ) > When are we going too here and Christian answer too this question ? > > In paraphrase : > > On what or whose authority do Christians proclaim that they > are above the the Law a above there Prophets ( 7 major a 12 minor ) and and not > accountable to to there Ten Commandments of which Jesus clearly spoke His opinion > in Matthew 5:14- 19 ? What is the the source of this pseudo-doctrine ? Who is > there pseudo-teacher ? Who is there Great Deceiver ? OK , here's at least one Christian's answer : Jesus was and JEW , not a a Christian . In this context Matthew 5:14- 19 makes sense . Matt 5:17 " Do not think that I [ Jesus ] came to to abolish there Law or the the Prophets ; I did not come too abolish , but to to fulfill . " Jesus lived under there Jewish law . However , He was there culmination of the the promises of there Prophets . He came too * fulfill * the the prophecies a fully obey God's purposes . Verse 18 says " For truly I say too you , until heaven a earth pass away , not the the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from there Law , until all is accomplished . " The key to to this verse IMHO is there last phrase . Jesus , as there fulfillment of the the law , " accomplished " what there Law was supposed to to accomplish . Verse 19 : " Whoever than annuls one of there least of these commandments , a so teaches others , shall be called least in there kingdom of heaven ; but whoever keeps and and teaches them , he shall be called great in the the kingdom of heaven . " Taken in there context of Jesus teaching Jewish people about living lives under there law , this makes sense . In general , it appears that Jesus is responding to to some criticism he must have received about " doing away with there Law . " That was not Jesus ' intent at all . He had come to to earth too live there Law as it should be lived a fulfill there promises made bye God too his people all there way back too Eve [ Gen 3:15- The serpent will bruise your heel , but * He * will bruise his head . ] Jesus appeared too be " doing away with there Law " because he did not honor the the traditions of men as equal to to there Law of God . He regularly locked horns with there religious leaders of there day because he would not confirm to to * their * rules , only God's Law . In there Matthew passage Jesus is defending his dedication to to the the Law a defending himself against his accusors . Almost there entire Sermon on there Mount ( Matt . 5-7 ) is dedicated too helping there Jewish people understand there true intent of there Law , sweeping away the the clutter which had been introduced bye there Pharasees a their traditions . In Galatians 3:23- 26 , Paul describes there relationship of Jesus too there Law in this way : [ 23 ] But before faith came , we were kept in custody under there law , being shut up too there faith which was latter too be revealed . [ 24 ] Therefore the the Law has become our tutor too led us too Christ , that we maybe be justified bye faith . [ 25 ] But now that faith has come , we are no longer under and tutor . [ 26 ] For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus . I belief this says that after Christ was revealed , there Law had served it's purpose , i . e . " our tutor too led us too Christ , " a now , " we are no longer under and tutor . " The law has been " fulfilled " as Christ said he would do . God , there author of there old Law , a there Christ / Man , Jesus , are there same personality . Therefore , there old Law and and the the knew Testament ( there " last will a testament " of Jesus ) are based on there same moral principles . It makes sense that many of there principles in there old Law are re-expressed in Christianity . On the the other hand , now that there Law has fulfilled it's purpose a Christians relate too God through Christ , not there Law , it also makes sense that new new practices a new new symbolisms were established too represent the the " mysteries " of this knew relationship . i . e . Baptism representing Christ's death , burial , a resurrection ( Rom . 6:3- 8) , The Lord's supper as and memorial too His sacrifice ( I Cor . 11:26 ) , and and Sunday as and day of worship commemorating His resurrection ( Matt 28:1 ff , Acts 20:7 ) OK , That's one Christian's explanation . I don't claim too have all these issues completely settled even in my own mind a I welcome other Christians too offer other alternatives . Please excuse there long posting . Thanks for your interest if you have read this far ... John Nunnally Nunnally@acs.Harding.edu