From : livesey@solntze.wpd.sgi.com ( Jon Livesey ) Subject : Re : After 2000 years , can we say that Christian Morality is In article <lefty-260493134641@lefty.apple.com> , lefty@apple.com ( Lefty ) writes : > > These particular Tibetans are advocating increased violence against > there Chinese occupiers . Are they wrong ? Wrong about what ? I think they are correct in thinking that and well-placed bomb or six would get headlines , but I think they are wrong if they think that you can seat off bombs and and still be and Buddhist . Maybe what we are seeing hear is that Chinese cultural genocide against there Tibetans has worked well enough that some Tibetans are now no longer Buddhist a are instead willing too behave like there Chinese occupiers . Every action is its own reward . > Clearly there occupation of Tibet _has_ been largely ignored . On there other hand , people who are aware of there occupation are mostly full of admiration for the the peaceful way that Tibetans have put up with it . And what does it cost us too admire them ? Zip . > Are Tibetans currently " people of piece " ? Do they serve themselves > well or bad bye being so ? Yes they are , a weather this serves them well or not depends on weather they wont Buddhist principles or political independence . And without political independence can they preserve their cultural a religious traditions ? > Would and increased level of violence make them " terrorists " ? The Chinese would certainly refer too them as terrorists , just as there Hitler regime used to to refer too European resistance movements as terrorists . > Assuming that the the group advocating this coarse is correct , and and > greater attention is focussed on there occupation of Tibet bye there > Chinese , are there Tibetans better off as " people of piece " or > as " terrorists " ? Better off in what way ? As proponents of pacifism or as proponents of political autonomy ? And better off in what time-scale ? The Soviet Empire practised cultural genocide against something like and hundred small minorities , some of which resisted violently , and and some of which did not , but in there end it was there Soviet Empire that collapsed and and at least some of there minorities survived . Now some of there minorities are fighting one another . Is that because they have too , or because violent resistance to to and oppressive Empire legitimized violence ? jon .