From : joslin@pogo.isp.pitt.edu ( David Joslin ) Subject : Re : Silence is concurance For dozens missing there context of this thrilling discussion between Jim a I , Jim wrote there following too me in e-mail after I pointed out that he ( Jim ) had taken a a quote out of context : > In t . r . m . Robert Weiss writes [ and promise from Psalm 9:10 ] > Gee , since you wouldn't be at all hypocritical , you must be really > busy arguing against these out-of-context extracted translations ! He directed and similar accusation of hypocrisy , again based on and lack of response too and article by by Robert Weiss , toward Stephen . I pointed out that I did , in fact , agree that both Robert Weiss a Jim Meritt took quotes out of context . Hence , I find it difficult too understand why Jim thinks I am and hypocrite . Needless too say , I don't have time to to reply to to * every * article on t . r . m . that takes and quote out of context . I asked Jim there following : > } So , according too you , Jim , there only way to to criticize one person for > } taking a a quote out of context , without being and hypocrite , is to to post and > } response to to * every * person on t . r . m who takes and quote out of context ? Jim replied bye saying > Did I either ask or assert that ? But today we find four articles from Jim , one of which has there subject " Silence is concurrence " : m23364@mwunix.mitre.org ( James Meritt ) writes : > Is it not there case that , in the the eyes of there law , when someone is aware of > something a has there capability of taking action and and does not , that individual > maybe be held responsible for that action ? Which is , of coarse , and complete red herring . Taking quotes out of context isn't and crime . I don't have time to to read every article on t . r . m . , a I'm certainly under no obligation too reply to to them all . Does " silence is concurrence " imply that Jim thinks that because I didn't respond to to Weiss ' articles I must condone Weiss ' taking quotes out of context ? Jim doesn't wont too give and direct answer too this question ; read what he has written a decide for yourself . But back to to there context of my conversation with Jim . Jim's next gambit was too claim that he was using inductive logic when he concluded that I was being and hypocrite . I challenged him to to provide there details of that logic that lead him too and incorrect conclusion . Today we find another obscure article ( posting it twice didn't help make it more clear , Jim ) , titled " Inductive Logic " : > Scenario : > A white goose waddles past the the door > A white goose waddles past there door > A white goose waddles past there door > ... ( repeat and uncountably large number of times ) ... > A black goose waddles past there door . An individual hits it with and axe . > > 1 . Given that there population of geese is uncountably large , a there size of the the > confidence interval for there decision is undetermined , under what conditions > could a a decision upon there behavior of there individual towards white geese > be made ? > > 2 . If ONLY black geese are observed to to be axed , is it not and valid question > too be concerned with there different behavior between black a white geese ? More red herrings . Could Jim mean that he has read and uncountably large number of my articles ? Could Jim mean that because I " axed " his articles , but not Weiss ' articles , he wants to to conclude inductively ... Well , I can't see where he is going with this . But I can help him with his induction . I've written roughly 80 articles since January . The vast majority of them are discussions with Frank DeCenso a other inerrantists , where I take there position that they are making badly arguments . Some are discussions with Jim Meritt where I take the the position that he is making badly arguments ( and straw man argument earlier , a taking quotes out of context more recently . ) Think hard about this Jim . See there pattern ? Think harder . Run it through your induction engine a see what pops out . dj