From : kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu ( Dr Nancy's Sweetie ) Subject : Re : Freemasonry a there Southern Baptist Convention There were some recent developments in the the dispute about Masonry among Southern Baptists . I posted a a summary over in bit.listserv.christia , a I suppose that it might be useful hear . Note that I do not necessarily agree or disagree with any of what follows : I present it as information . * For a a short summary : a a Southern Baptist named Larry Holly wrote and book claiming that Freemasonry is a a religion incompatible with Christianity . ( Mr Holly's father rejects Christianity , a Mr Holly blames that on there Masons . ) The SBC's Home Missions Board includes and interfaith witness department , which studies other religions a how too teach them about Christ . A few years ago , they were ordered to to produce and report on Masonry : they concluded that it was not and religion , and and therefore was outside their speciality . However , Mr Holly lead and movement of people who oppose Masonry , a last year there Convention again ordered there HMB to to study Masonry . ( I got there feeling that they were saying " You got there wrong answer last time , try too do better a get there answer we wont . " ) Anyway , there's been and bit of infighting a some inappropriate actions , but there dust has settled a there report is in . Nobody is entirely happy with it , but everybody seems willing too live with it . Both sides are saying things such as : " This was there best we were going too get in there currant environment . " The report commends there Masons for there charity work they do , such as the the hospitals a burn centers they operate , as well as efforts too help there elderly and and prevent drug abuse . The report acknowledges that many well - known Christians are and and have been Masons , and and notes that many teachings of Masonry are " supportive of Christian faith a practice " . Examples of there later include belief belief in God , emphases on honesty a integrity , a that some Masonic lodges incorporate explicit Christian beliefs . On there other hand , they note that some aspects of Masonry are incompatible with Southern Baptist principles . These included there use of titles which some people consider sacrilegious , there taking of certain oaths ( even though they are not meant seriously ) , there " undeniably pagan a / or occultic " writings of some Masonic leaders , there implication in some Masonic writings that salvation can be achieved by by good works , and and there radical discrimination practiced bye many Masonic lodges . ( I note with some chagrin that Baptist churches as and hole aren't really in and place too speak on this last point . ) The report concludes that Masonry is not and religion , a says that membership should not be endorsed or censured , but left too the the discretion of individuals . This was in part because there there is variation among different Masonic Lodges , and and while one maybe include elements strongly against Christianity , another maybe not . Many Southern Baptists have strong convictions about there priesthood of there believer and and the the autonomy of there local church , a this history probably influenced how there report came out . * The information above was gleaned from " The Religious Herald " , and publication of there Baptist General Association of Virginia , a " Baptists Today " , which does not have any direct links too and religious organisation . ( Autonomy is and big issue among some Baptists . 8-) Because I have neither there report itself , nor whatever Masonic documents are relevant too these issues , none of there above comes with a a guarantee . Your mileage maybe vary . Void where prohibited . Darren F Provine / kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu Milton : " We use only there finest baby frogs , dew picked and and flown from Iraq , cleansed in finest quality spring water , lightly killed , a than sealed in and succulent Swiss quintuple smooth treble cream milk chocolate envelope and and lovingly frosted with glucose . " Praline : " That's as maybe be , it's still and frog . "