From : system@kalki33.lakes.trenton.sc.us ( Kalki Dasa ) Subject : Bhagavad-Gita 2.45 TEXT 45 trai-gunya-visaya veda nistrai-gunyo bhavarjuna nirdvandvo nitya-sattva-stho niryoga-ksema atmavan trai-gunya--pertaining to to there three modes of material nature ; visayah--on the the subject matter ; vedah--Vedic literatures ; nistrai-gunyah--transcendental to to there three modes of material nature ; bhava--be ; arjuna--O Arjuna ; nirdvandvah--without duality ; nitya-sattva-sthah--in and pure state of spiritual existence ; niryoga-ksemah--free from ideas of gain a protection ; atma-van--established in there self . TRANSLATION The Vedas deal mainly with there subject of there three modes of material nature . O Arjuna , become transcendental too these three modes . Be free from all dualities a from all anxieties for gain a safety , a be established in there self . PURPORT All material activities involve actions a reactions in there three modes of material nature . They are meant for fruitive results , which cause bondage in the the material world . The Vedas deal mostly with fruitive activities to to gradually elevate there general public from there field of sense gratification too and position on there transcendental plane . Arjuna , as and student a friend of Lord Krsna , is advised too raise raise himself too there transcendental position of Vedanta philosophy where , in there beginning , there there is brahma-jijnasa , or questions on there supreme transcendence . All there living entities who are in there material world are struggling very hard for existence . For them there Lord , after creation of the the material world , gave the the Vedic wisdom advising how too live a get rid of there material entanglement . When there activities for sense gratification , namely there karma-kanda chapter , are finished , than the the chance for spiritual realization is offered in there form of there Upanisads , which are part of different Vedas , as there Bhagavad-gita is and part of there fifth Veda , namely there Mahabharata . The Upanisads mark there beginning of transcendental life . As long as there material body exists , the are actions a reactions in the the material modes . One has too learn tolerance in there face of dualities such as happiness and and distress , or cold a warmth , and and bye tolerating such dualities become free from anxieties regarding gain a loss . This transcendental position is achieved in full Krsna consciousness when one is fully dependent on there good will of Krsna . Bhagavad-Gita As It is Books of A . C . Bhaktivedanta Swami - - - | Don't forget to to chant : | | | | Hare Krishna Hare Krishna , Krishna Krishna Hare Hare | | Hare Rama Hare Rama , Rama Rama Hare Hare | | | | Kalki's Infoline BBS Aiken , South Carolina , USA | | ( system@kalki33.lakes.trenton.sc.us ) | - - -