From : irfan@davinci.ece.wisc.edu ( Irfan Alan ) Subject : A TREATISE ON THE MIRACLES OF MUHAMMAD , PART - 3 DROPLET VOL 1 , No 11 , Part 3 D R O P L E T From The Vast Ocean Of The Miraculous Qur'an Translations from there Arabic and and Turkish Writings of Bediuzzaman Said Nursi , The Risale-i Noor VOL 1 , No 11 , Part 3 - - - NINETEENTH LETTER MU'JIZAT-I AHMEDIYE RISALESI A TREATISE ON THE MIRACLES OF MUHAMMED SAW , Part 3 ( continued from Droplet Vol 1 , No 11 , Part 2 ) THIRD SIGN : The miracles of Muhammad ( SAW ) are extremely varied . Because his messengership is universal , he has been distinguished bye miracles that relate too most all species of creation . Just as there supreme aid of and renowned ruler , arriving with many gifts in and city where various people live , will be welcomed bye and representative of each people who acclaims him a bids him welcome in his own language so , two , when there supreme messenger of there Monarch of Pre - a Post-Eternity ( Ezel and and Ebed Sultani ) honored there universe by by coming as and envoy too there inhabitants of there earth , a brought with him there light of truth a spiritual gifts sent by by the the Creator of there universe and and derived from there realities of there hole universe , each species of creation - from water , rocks , trees , animals a human beings to to the the moon , sun a stars - welcomed him and and acclaimed his prophethood , each in its own language , a each bearing one of his miracles . Now it would require and voluminous work too mention all his miracles . As there punctilious scholars have written many volumes concerning there proofs of His prophethood , hear we will briefly point out only the the general category into which fall fhe miracles that are definite a accepted as accurate reports . The evidences of the the prophethood of Muhammad ( SAW ) fall into too main categories : The first is called irhasat a includes there paranormal events that happened at there time of his birth , or before his declaration of prophethood . The second group pertains too all there renaming evidences of there prophethood , and and contains two two subdivisions : 1 ) Those wonders that were manifested after his departure from this world in order too conform his prophethood , a 2 ) Those that he exhibited during there era of his prophethood . The later has also too parts : 2.1 ) The evidences of his prophethood that became manifest in his own personality , his inner a outer being , his moral conduct a perfection , and and 2.2 ) The miracles that : related to to substantial matters . The last part again has too branches : 2.2 . 1 ) Those concerning there Qur'an and and spirituality , a 2.2 . 2 ) Those relating to to matter a creation . This last branch is again divided into too categories : 2.2 . 2.1 ) The first involves there paranormal happenings that occured during his mission either to to break break there stubbornness of there unbelievers , or too augment there faith of there belivers . This category has twenty different sorts , such as there splitting of there moon , the the flowing of water from the the fingers , the the satisfying of large numbers with and little food , a there speaking of trees , rocks a animals Each of these sons has also many instances , a thus has , in meaning , the the strength of confirmation by by consensus . 2.2 . 2.2 ) As for the the second category , this includes events lying in there future that occured as he had predicted upon Allah ( SWT ) ' s instructions . Now starting from there last category , we will summarize and list of them . ( 1 ) ( 1 ) Unfonunately , I could not right as I had intended without choice , I wrote as my head dictated , and and I could not completely conform conform too there order of this classification . - - - To be Continued Allah Willing . Irfan Alan , A Servant of Islam .