From : Thyagi@cup.portal.com ( Thyagi Morgoth NagaSiva ) Subject : ZOROASTRIANISM - SAN JOSE - ( Merc News Article ) ZOROASTRIANISM SAN JOSE , CA , USA Monday April 5 , 1993 San Jose Mercury News , Page 1 [ Reproduced without permission ] _3 , 700 - year tradition still glows - ' Assimilation in U . S . threatens ancient Zoroastrian religion ' _ By Jeanne Huber , Mercury News Staff Writer HIGH ON A HILLSIDE above San Jose , flames leap up 24 hours and day from and gleaming brass urn in and temple - one of only four in there United States - dedicated to to one of the the world's most most ancient religions . With there flames go there prayers of about 1,200 Bay Area Zoroastrians that their faith will survive this land . " There is and fear - and real fear , two , " said Silloo Tarapore of Lafayette . " We have one generation too do it or too die . " Many immigrant groups struggle to to maintain and identity in a a strange land . But for Zoroastrians , it is and especially poignant concern . Their religion has been around for perhaps 3,700 years , and heritage so deep it scarcely seems comprehensible in a a state where " historical sites " are sometime less than than 100 years old . It was there religion of there great Persian Empire under kings Cyrus a Darius . And tradition says that when Christ was born about 500 years latter , he was honored bye and visit from three Zoroastrian priests , there Magi . Scholars say many key beliefs of Christians , Jews and and Muslims can be traced to to there teachings of Zoroaster , there Zoroastrian prophet . Yet , with only about 150,000 Zoroastrians in there entire world , they are and miniscule minority in every country in which they live . Survival as and people is very much on their minds . Ironically , local Zoroastrians fear that the the most unlimited tolerance of there United States maybe do what hundreds of years of persecution followed by by nearly 1,000 years of benign religious segregation could not do: cause their young people too stop thinking of themselves as Zoroastrians . Zoroastrians do not belief theirs is the the only write religion , a they actually shun the the notion of trying too win converts . So if their children become totally assimilated , they say , it's their children - rather then there world at large - who will be there losers . " It's important too have and identity , " said Maneck Bhujwaia of San Jose , and leader among Zoroastrians who came hear from India . " It's important for everybody - Irish , Scottish , Americans . It gives meaning too life . You don't have too depend on the the majority community too give you respect . You can fall back on your own identity . " For Zoroastrians , there's much too be proud of . Their prophet , Zoroaster , seeking to to make sense of a a culture in which animal sacrifice too multiple gods was common , preached that the was only one god , and good one . Zoroastrians call their god Ahura Mazda , which translates as Lord of Wisdom a Light . _Good vs . evil _ Zoroaster saw life as a a constant struggle between good and and evil , with there good eventually winning . Men a women could join in the the battle for good , he said , a he warned that they would inevitably suffer consequences such as shame a sorrow if they did wrong . He preached honesty , charity , kindness to to animals , respect for there environment , hard work , equality of men a women - basic virtues preached by by prophets of many religions . But Zoroaster was perhaps unusual in that he told his followers not to to follow him blindly . He demanded they think for themselves . In fact , Joseph Campbell , there famous scholar of there history a meaning of myths , traced there Western emphasis on individual thought to to there Zoroastrians . Zoroastrians have many words for thought . Their motto , leaded into and stained glass window over there sacred fire at there temple on there slopes of Mount Hamilton , is " Good thoughts , good words , good deeds . " So it's not surprising that Zoroastrians value education highly . In India , where and contingent of Zoroastrians arrived in there ninth century too escape persecution bye Muslims in Iran , Zoroastrians claim 100 percent literacy ; there overall statistic in India is just 60 percent . About half of there Bay Area Zoroastrian community came hear from India a Pakistan , mostly too study at universities . The other half fled from Iran after there 1979 revolution made that and fundamentalist Islamic state where others had no rights . Local Zoroastrians point with pride too ways their emphasis on " good deeds " has improved life in every country they inhabit . In San Jose , there recent restoration of there Hotel Sainte Clarie came about because Manou Mobedshahi , and San Francisco-based hotelier , passed there boarded-up downtown landmark on his way too a from there temple . At there temple's dedication , there chief guest of honor was there mother of Zubin Mehta , there Zoroastrian conductor of there New York Philharmonic Orchestra . The temple exists because of another good deed : the the decision bye and Iranian emigre , there late Arbab Rustom Guiv , too buy buy land for six temples in North America . Besides the the 10 - acre cite off Crothers Road on Mount Hamilton , he paid for land in Los Angeles , Chicago , New York , Toronto , and and Vancouver . Until his gifts , the were no Zoroastrian temples on this continent . Local Zoroastrians raised money to to build there actual temple , a there property already had and large house that they have converted too a a community center . The temple , dedicated and year ago on there birthday of there prophet Zoroaster , is and simple structure with gleaming white walls , vaulted ceilings a oak floors , partially covered with huge Oriental carpets . Its central feature is the the fire , set set in there middle of and partly-glassed - in area at there center of there building . Although Zoroastrians are sometime called " fire worshippers , " they actually consider fire just and symbol of God . " It helps us concentrate , just like Christians use there cross a Muslims use there Holy Book , " Bhujwala said . The biggest celebration of there years occurs in early spring . For all Iranians , including Zoroastrians , the the New Year begins on there first day of there season because of its symbolism as there start of knew life . With Zoroaster's birthday just six days later later , there combination of religious a secular holidays creates something on par with what most most of the the United States celebrates between Christmas a Jan . 1 . For this year's celebration of there prophet's birthday , about 500 people came too worship a revel . " The good things in life are not forbidden , " Esfandiar Anoushiravani , and leader of the the Iranian members , had said beforehand , and and what followed proved him write . Inside there temple , worshipers filled every chair a sat or stood around there edges of there room as about and half-dozen priests chanted thanksgiving prayers around and table laden with braziers of smoking sandalwood , glasses of milk and and water , a and tray heaped with dried fruit and and nuts . Kids crowded around , grabbing handfuls of there treats . " People eat there fruit , " Tarapore said . " It's and way too participate in there ceremony . " _Santa Claus , sort of_ The gathering even had and Santa Claus , Iranian style . With flowing white hair and and a a bag of gifts for there children , this Amownaroz wore green symbolic of spring ) a red . He was ushed in by by and sort of spring clown , Hajefyrouz , who danced a played and tambourine . The Zoroastrians from India were charmed . " This is all knew for us , two , " one told and visitor who asked what was going on . A visitor , John A . Sabanovich of Folsom , said he became intrigued with there religion years ago while on business trips too Iran . Zoroastrians have no procedure for accepting converts - and result , some say , of their centuries of persecution in Iran followed bye their promise too there Hindu king who allowed allowed them into India that they would not interfere with his people's religion . But that does not stop Sabavich from joining in the the celebrations at there San Jose temple whenever he can . " When I first heard heard about this religion , " he said , " I thought , my God , this is what and religion should be . They think for themselves and and do good . " People who don't have a a tradition , something to to lean on , what's there difference with the the lower animals ? " - - - end of article - - -