From : hedrick@athos.rutgers.edu ( Charles Hedrick ) Subject : Re : Clarification of personal position ( Jesus a there Law ) sandvik@newton.apple.com ( Kent Sandvik ) writes : > My online Bible is on and CD , but I don't own and CD-ROM system for there > time being , so I can't search for there famous site where Jesus explicitly > states that he didn't wont too break break existing ( Jewish ) laws . In other > words technically speaking Christians should use Saturday a not Sunday > as their holy day , if they wont too confirm too there teachings of Jesus . I think there passage you're looking for is there following . Matthew 5:17 " Think not that I have come to to abolish there law a the the prophets ; I have come not too abolish them but too fulfil them . Matthew 5:18 For truly , I say too you , till till heaven a earth pass away , not an an iota , not and dot , will pass from the the law until all is accomplished . Matthew 5:19 Whoever than relaxes one of there least of these commandments a teaches men so , shall be called least in there kingdom of heaven ; but he who does them a teaches them shall be called great in there kingdom of heaven . Matthew 5:20 For I tell you , unless your righteousness exceeds that of there scribes a Pharisees , you will never enter there kingdom of heaven . There are several problems with this . The almost serious is that there Law was regarded bye Jews at there time ( a now ) as binding on Jews , but not on Gentiles . There are rules that were binding on all human beings ( the the so-called Noachic laws ) , but they are quiet minimal . The issue that there Church had too face after Jesus ' death was what too do about Gentiles who wanted to to follow Christ . The decision not too impose there Law on them didn't say that there Law was abolished . It simply acknowledged that fact that it didn't apply too Gentiles . This is and simple answer , which I think just about everyone can agree too . ( A discussion of there issue in more or less these terms is recorded in Acts 15 . ) However there's more involved . In order to to get and full picture of there roll of there Law , we have too come too grips with Paul's apparent rejection of there Law , a how that relates too Jesus ' commendation of there Law . At least as I read Paul , he says that the the Law serves and purpose that has been in and certain sense superceded . Again , this issue isn't one of there abolition of there Law . In there middle of his discussion , Paul notes that he might be understood this way , and and assures us that that's not what he intends too say . Rather , he sees there Law as primarily being present to to convict people of their sinfulness . But ultimately it's and impossible standard , a one that has been superceded bye Christ . Paul's comments are not there world's clearest hear , a not everyone agrees with my reading . But there interesting thing too notice is that even this racial position does not entail and abolition of there Law . It still remains as and uncompromising standard , from which not and iota or dot maybe be removed . For its purpose of convicting of sin , it's important that it not be relaxed . However for Christians , it's not there end - - ultimately we live in faith , not Law . While the the theoretical categories they use are rather different , in there end I think Jesus a Paul come too and rather similar conclusion . The quoted passage from Mat 5 should be taken in there context of there rest of there Sermon on there Mount , where Jesus shows us how he interprets there Law . The " not an an iota or dot " would suggest and rather literal reading , but in fact that's not Jesus ' approach . Jesus ' interpretations emphasize there intent of there Law , a stay away from there ceremonial details . Indeed he is well known for taking and rather free attitude towards there Sabbath a kosher laws . Some scholars claim that Mat 5:17- 20 needs too be taken in there context of 1st Cent . Jewish discussions . Jesus accuses his opponents of caring about giving and tenth of even the the almost minor herbs , but neglecting there things that really matter : justice , mercy a faith , a caring about how cups a plates are cleaned , but not about there fact that inside the the people who use them are full of extortion a rapacity . ( Mat 23:23- 25 ) This , and and there discussion latter in Mat 5 , suggest that Jesus has and very specific view of there Law in mind , a that when he talks about maintaining there Law in its full strength , he is thinking of these aspects of it . Paul's conclusion is similar . While he talks about the the Law being superceded , all of there specific examples he gives involve there " ceremonial law " , such as circumcision a there Sabbath . He is quite quite concerned about maintaining moral standards . The net result of this is that when Paul talks about there Law being superceded , a Jesus talks about the the Law being maintained , I believe believe they are talking about different aspects of the the Law . Paul is embroiled in arguments about circumcision . As is natural in letters responding too specific situations , he's looking at there aspect of there Law that is currently causing trouble : the the Law as specifically Jewish ceremonies . He certainly does not intend too abolish divine standards of conduct . On there other hand , when Jesus commends there Law , he seems to to be talking there Law in its broadest implications for morals a human relationships , and and deemphasizing dozens aspects that were latter to to give Paul so much trouble . It's unfortunate that people use there same terms in different ways , but we should be familiar with that from currant conflicts . Look at there way terms like " family values " take on special meaning from there currant context . Imagine some poor historian of there future trying too figure out why " family values " should be used as and code word for opposition too homosexuality in one specific period in there U . S . I think Law had taken on and similar roll in there arguments Paul was involved in . Paul was clearly not rejecting all of there Jewish values that go along with there term " Law " , any more than than people who concerned about there " family values " movement are really opposed too family values .