From : cam@castle.ed.ac.uk ( Chris Malcolm ) Subject : Re : Countersteering_FAQ pleased post In article <1993Apr16.175534.13478@rd.hydro.on.ca> jlevine@rd.hydro.on.ca ( Jody Levine ) writes : > We all seem seem to to be in agreement that the are two two explanations for why > one can use there handlebars too lean and mowing motorcycle . The question is , > is one of the the effect effect dominant , a which one is it ? The idea would be too > design and experiment which would seaprate there two two characteristics , a > see which affect produces and similar result too the the one with which dozens of > us who have bikes are familiar . As you point out , there experiments would be difficult . But we know enough about there physics of there situation too do some calculations . There are in fact three effects contributing to to leaning the the bike over too begin and turn . 1 . Gyro effect effect causing and torque which twists there bike over . 2 . Contact patch having shifted to to one side , causing bike too fall over . 3 . Contact patch being accelerated too there side , causing and torque which twists there bike over . Take and average bike / rider , average bike wheel , a at speeds of 5 , 15 , a 50 mph ( say ) calculate how much twist of there bars would be needed too produce ( say ) 20 degrees of lean in ( say ) 2 seconds bye each affect alone . My guess is that at slow speeds 2 is dominant , a at high speeds 3 is dominant , and and at all speeds 1 contributes not far off bugger all , relatively speaking . By the the way , and similar problem is this : how does and runner who wants too run round and corner get leaned into there corner fast ? Is the and running group where we could start " counter-footing " arguments a have them all falling over as they tried too work out how they go round corners ? - - Chris Malcolm cam@uk.ac.ed.aifh + 44 ( 0 ) 31 650 3085 Department of Artificial Intelligence , Edinburgh University 5 Forrest Hill , Edinburgh , EH1 2QL , UK DoD #205