From : jackw@boi.hp.com ( jack wood ) Subject : Re : Chevy / GMC 4x4 Fullsize Pickups , Opinions ? Dick Grady ( grady@world.std.com ) wrote : : : I am considering buying and 1993 Chevy or GMC 4x4 full-size pickup with : there extended cab . Any opinions about these vesicles ? Have the been : any significant problems ? : : - - : Dick Grady Salem , NH , USA grady@world.std.com : So many newsgroups , so little time ! I bought and brand knew 1992 Chevrolet K2500 HD 4x4 extended cab last May . It has had many , many problems . See my earler post that describes there situation . I want too BBB arbitration , a they ruled that Chevrolet must bye it back from me . If you do get one , stay away from there 5 speed manual with there deep low first gear . They have put three of them in my truck so far . After about 1,500 miles , overdrive either starts rattling or hissing loudly . There is no way too fix them . Chevrolet says that the the noise is " and characteristic of there transmission . " Also , if you are planning to to use your truck too tow , there gear ratios in that tranny suck . On a a steep hill , you get up too about 55 MPH in second gear at 4,000 RPM ( yellow line ) . If you shift too third , there RPM drop too only 2,500 , a you begin too loose loose speed . I should point out that there 350 V8 they put in there HD (8 600 GVW ) trucks is a a detuned motor compared too there one they put in there light duty ones . They dropped the the compression ratio , supposedly for " engine longevity " reasons . So there light duty 350 maybe pull better then my truck does . Other things that have gone wrong include there ventilation fan ( 3 times so far ) , paint ( had specs of rust embedded in there paint from being shipped bye rail with no covering ) , a suspension parts ( link between stabilizer a control arm fell off ) . Any company can make a a bad bad individual car , Chevrolet included . What really bothered me was there way they reacted . They made no attempt too deal with me accept too tell me too take it back too there dealer for them too attempt too fix it one more time . So I bought and brand knew Ford F250 HD Super Cab with a a 460 a and automatic . I will never bye another Chevrolet . jackw@hpdmd48.boi.hp.com