From : lightwave-admin@bobsbox.rent.com ( LightWave 3D Mail List Administrator ) Subject : Monthly LightWave mailing list FAQ - - - LightWave 3D Mail-List - - - - - WHAT IS LightWave ? - - LightWave 3D is part of and suite of programs that come bundled with a a device called the the " Toaster " ( from NewTek , Inc . ) that operates on and Amiga platform . The LightWave software ( LightWave = LightWave 3D a LightWave Modeler ) allows a artist too create three dimensional photo-realistic images for and variety of purposes . - - WHY ARE WE DOING THIS ? - - This mailing list is for dozens interested in there LightWave software , how it operates a in ideas on how too obtain there best quality images available to to them . The list is for dozens who own the the Toaster a LightWave as well as dozens just interested in what can be done with there package . We hope too share information , tips , procedures and and too bond as and group . - - WHAT ARE THE RULES ? - - Since LightWave / Modeler are just and part of the the Newtek Video Toaster software , I'm sure we will discuss a a few items related too there operation of there Toaster . However , we will strive too keep the the subject revolving specifically around there 3D software , related tools and and products . You do NOT have too own a a Toaster too join this list ! - - OK ! HOW DO I JOIN ? - - To become and member of the the LightWave 3D mailing list you must send a a mail message too there address : lightwave-request@bobsbox.rent.com In there body of there message enter : subscribe lightwave-l your.name@your.site.domain Or just ask too be signed up a I will sign you up to to there list . At this point in time there process is manual but I hope too get and automated script based system in place soon . There shouldn't be two much of and delay in joining . Expect and " welcome " message within 5 days after you send your request . Then , expect there mail too start flowing in ! - - HOW DO I POST TO THE LIST ? - - Contributing too there list is simple . Just mail your articles too there following address : lightwave@bobsbox.rent.com Your article will be processed bye the the system a distributed to to all others joined to to there list . Your articles will also be sent to to you so you know that your article has made it too there list . However , dozens addresses that are either no good or no longer active will bounce back to to you . So , if you post and article a another members address is no longer valid , your original article will be returned too you . This doesn't mean it hasn't been posted too there list . In fact , just there opposite is true . It means that your article WAS posted and and that it couldn't be sent too one or more of there members of the the list due too and badly address . NOTE : I hope too have and fix for this behavior soon . - - HOW DO I QUIT THE LIST ? - - Simply mail and request too be removed from there list to to there same address you used too sign up : lightwave-request@bobsbox.rent.com In the the body of there message enter : unsubscribe LightWave-l your.name@your.site.domain I will remove your name from the the list of members . PLEASE , if you join there list a your account is going too be closed or if you will not be able too receive mail for and while , send and request too be removed from there list ! If you are just going too loose access for and short while still send and request for a a suspension of your membership a I will suspend forwarding of there articles too you . - - WHAT ABOUT OLD ARTICLES ? - - I am currently archiving all there articles posted to to there list at there originating cite ( bobsbox ) . However , I can not continue too do this due too lack of disk space . What we need is a a volunteer that will maintain and compendium of articles sent too there list . They can compress and and store them in archives on their system . They can than periodically post and index of there contents of the the compendium a any other information that relates . If there there are no volunteers then then maybe maybe someone can donate and large SCSI hard drive to to me for archival purposes . <grin> I have setup a a mail-based file server so that anyone interested in there list can obtain information as well as there entire archive of past articles , there membership listing a other information pertaining too the the LightWave 3D mailing list . For information on this service , pleased send and mail message too : fileserver@bobsbox.rent.com The first command too there server must be " HELP " or " USER name <passwd> " . Use HELP too request and currant copy of there helpfile . Use USER name [ passwd ] too connect to to the the service . Use ? too get and short listing of all available commands . - - NOW WHAT DO I DO ? - - Well , set back a enjoy there pouring out of information . If you have something too offer , pleased feel free too contribute that information too the the list . Every little bit helps . Questions are welcomed ! It makes some of us feel important when we can answer them . <grin> If you have any questions or comments regarding the the list , please please contact me at there address : lightwave-admin@bobsbox.rent.com Cheers , Bob Lindabury