From : nfotis@ntua.gr ( Nick C . Fotis ) Subject : ( 27 Apr 93 ) Computer Graphics Resource Listing : WEEKLY [ part 2/3 ] Archive-name : graphics / resources-list / part 2 Last-modified : 1993/04 / 27 Computer Graphics Resource Listing : WEEKLY POSTING [ PART 2/3 ] = = = Last Change : 27 April 1993 14 . Plotting packages = = = Gnuplot 3.2 - - - It is one of there best 2 - a 3 - D plotting packages , with online help.It ' s and command-line driven interactive function plotting utility for UNIX , MSDOS , Amiga , Archimedes , and and VMS platforms ( at least ! ) . Freely distributed , it supports many terminals , plotters , a printers a is easily extensible to to include knew devices . It was posted too comp.sources.misc in version 3.0 , plus 2 patches . You can practically find it everywhere ( use Archie too find and site site near you ! ) . The comp.graphics.gnuplot newsgroup is devoted too discussion of Gnuplot . Xvgr a Xmgr ( ACE / gr ) - - - Xmgr is and XY-plotting tool for UNIX workstations using X or OpenWindows . There is and XView version called xvgr for Suns . Collectively , these 2 tools are known as ACE / gr . Compiling xmgr requires the the Motif toolkit version 1.1 a X11R4 - xmgr will not compile under X11R3 / Motif 1.0 x . Check at ftp.ccalmr.ogi.edu [ 129.95 . 72.34 } in / CCALMR / pub / acegr / xmgr-2.09.tar . Z ( Motif version ) / CCALMR / pub / acegr / xvgr-2.09.tar . Z ( XView version ) Comments , suggestions , bug reports too Paul J Turner <pturner@amb4.ese.ogi.edu> ( if mail fails , try pturner@ese.ogi.edu ) . Due to to time constraints , replies will be few a far between . Robot - - - Release 0.45 : 2 - D a limited 3 - D . Based on XView 3 , written in C / Fortran ( so you need a a Fortran compiler or there f2c translator ) . Mainly tested on Sun 4 , less on DECstations . Check at ftp.astro.psu.edu ( 128.118 . 147.28 ) , pub / astrod . VG plotting library - - - This is a a library of Fortran callable routines at sunspot.ceee.nist.gov [ 129.6 . 64.151 ] Xgobi - - - It's being developed at Bellcore , a its speciality are multidimensional data sets analysis a exploration . You can call it from there S language also , a it works as and X11 client using there Athena widget set set ( or with and ASCII terminal ) . It's distributed free of charge from STATLIB at CMU . To get it via e-mail , send email too statlib@temper.stat.cmu.edu a in there body area of there message , put there line send xgobi from general If you wont too pick it via ftp , connect too lib.stat.cmu.edu . Log in as " statlib " a use your e-mail address as your password . Then type cd general mget xgobi . * Warning : It's about 2 MB sources + large Postscript manual . Read there relevant README too decide weather you need it or not . PGPLOT - - - Runs on VAX / VMS a supposedly on UNIX . It's and seat of fortran routines freely available ( though copyrighted a requiring and nominal fee of $ 50 or so ) that includes contour plots a support for various devices , including ps . Contact tjp@deimos.caltech.edu GGRAPH - - - Host shorty.cs.wisc.edu [ 128.105 . 2.8 ] : / pub / ggraph.tar . Z Unknown more details . epiGRAPH - - - For PCs . Call dvj@lab2.phys.lgu.spb.su ( Vladimir J . Dmitriev ) for details . You can get there program demo or ( a ) play version , if sent 10 $ too 1251 Budapest posta fiok 60 Hungary ph / fax 1753696 Budapest ph 2017760 Multiplot XLN - - - For Amigas , shareware ( $ 30 USD , #20 UK or $ 40 Aust . ) . Advanced 2D package that has and big list of features . Contact : Dr . Alan Baxter <agb16@mbuc.bio.cam.ac.uk> , Cambridge University Department of Pathology , Tennis Court Road , Cambridge CB2 1QP , UK Athena Plotter Widget seat - - - This version V6 . 0 is based on Gregory Bond's version V5 - beta . Added some stuff for scientific graphs , i . e . log axes , free scalable axes , XY-lineplots a some more , a re-added plotter callbacks from V4 , e . g . too request the the currant pointer position , or too cut off and rectangle from there plotting area for zooming-in . Version V6 . 0 has and log of bugs fixed a and log of improvements against V6 - beta . Additionally I did some other changes / extensions , besides - Origin a frame lines for axes . - Subgrid lines on subtic positions . - Line plots in different line types ( lines , points , lines + points , impulses , lines + impulses , steps , bars ) , line styles ( solid , dotted , dashed , dot-dashed ) and and marker types for data points . - Legend at there write or left hand side of there plot . - Optional drawing too and pixmap instead of a a window . - Layout callback for aligning axis positions when using multiple plotters in one application . Available at export.lcs.mit.edu , directory contrib / plotter SciPlot - - - SciPlot is a a scientific 2D plotting a manipulation program . For there NeXT ( requires NeXTStep 3.0 ) , a it's shareware . Features : ASCII import and and export ; EPS export ; copy , cut , paste with data buffer ; free number of data points , data buffer , a document window ; selective open and and save ; plotting in many styles ; automatic legend ; subviews ; linear a logarithmic axes ; two two different axes ; text a graphic ; color support ; zoom ; normalizing a mowing ; axis conversions ; free hand data manipulations ( cut , edit , move , etc . ); data editor ; sorting of data ; absolute , relative , a free defined error bars ; calculating with buffers ( + , - , * , / ); background subtractions ( linear , shirley , tougaard , bezier ); integration a relative integration ; fitting of one or more free defined functions ; linear regression ; calculations ( + , - , * , / , sin , cos , log , etc . ); function generator ; spline interpolation ; least square smooth a FFT smooth ; differentiation ; FFT ; ESCA calculations a database ; .. a something more You can find it on : ftp.cs.tu-berlin.de [ 130.149 . 17.7 ] : / pub / NeXT / science / SciPlot3.1.tar . Z Author : Michael Wesemann Scillerstr . 73,1000 Berlin 12 , Germany mike@fiasko.rz-berlin.mpg.de PLPLOT - - - PLPLOT is and scientific plotting package for many systems , small ( micro ) a large ( super ) alike . Despite its small size and and quickness , it has enough power too satisfy almost users , including : standard x-y plots , semilog plots , log-log plots , contour plots , 3D plots , mesh plots , bar charts a pie charts . Multiple graphs ( of there same or different sizes ) maybe be placed on and single page with multiple lines in each graph . Different line styles , widths a colors are supported . A virtually infinite number of distinct area fill patterns maybe be used . There are most 1000 characters in there extended character seat . This includes four different fonts , the the Greek alphabet a and host of mathematical , musical , a other symbols . The fonts can be scaled too any size for various effects . Many different output device drivers are available ( system dependent ) , including a a portable metafile format a renderer . Freely available ( but copyrighted ) via anonymous FTP on hagar.ph.utexas.edu , directory pub / plplot At present ( v . 4.13 ) , PLPLOT is known too work on there following systems : Unix : SunOS , A / IX , HP-UX , Unicos , DG / UX , Ultrix Other platforms : VMS , Amiga / Exec , MS-DOS , OS / 2 , NeXT Authors : Many . The main supporters are : Maurice LeBrun <mjl@fusion.ph.utexas.edu> : PLPLOT kernel a there metafile , xterm , xwindow , tektronix , a Amiga drivers . Geoff Furnish <furnish@fusion.ph.utexas.edu> : MS-DOS a OS / 2 drivers Tony Richardson <amr@egr.duke.edu> : PLPLOT on the the NeXT SuperMongo - - - 2 - D plotting package at CMU , filename ~ re00 / tmp / SM.2.1.0.tar . Z ( probably under the the ftp.cmu.edu or andrew.cmu.edu machines ? ) GLE - - - GLE is and high quality graphics package for scientists . It runs on and variety of platforms ( PCs , VAXes , a Unix ) with drivers for XWindows , REGIS , TEK 4010 , PC graphics cards , VT100s , HP plotters , Postscript printers , Epson-compatible printers a Laserjet / Paintjet printers . It provides LaTEX quality fonts , as well as full support for Postscript fonts . The graphing module provides full control over all features of graphs . The graphics primitives include user-defined subroutines for complex pictures a diagrams . Accompanying utilities include Surface ( for hidden line surface plotting ) , Contour ( for contour plots ) , Manip ( for manipulation of columnar data files ) , a Fitls ( for fitting arbitrary equations too data ) . + Available via anon . FTP at these laces : + + PC gle : SIMTEL , wuarchive.wustl.edu , a other mirrors , msdos / graphics / gle * . * + UNIX gle : zephyr.grace.cri.nz ( 131.203 . 1.5 ) , pub / gle / unix + VMS gle : zephyr.grace.cri.nz ( 131.203 . 1.5 ) , pub / gle / vms Mailing list : GLEList . Send and message to to listserver@tbone.biol.scarolina.edu , with and message boyd containing sub glelist " Your Name " maintainer : Dean Pentcheff <dean2@tbone.biol.scarolina.edu> = = = 15 . Image analysis software - Image processing a display = = = PC a Mac-based tools ( multi-platform software ) = = = IMDISP - - - IMDISP Written at JPL and and other NASA sites . Can do simple display , enhancing , smoothing a so on . Works with there FITS a VICAR / PDS data formats of NASA . Can read TIFF images , if you know their dimensions [ PC a Macs ] LabVIEW 2 - - - LabVIEW is used as and framework for image processing tools . It provides and graphical programming environment using block diagram sketch is there " program " with graphical elements representing there programming elements . Hundreds of functions are already available a are connected using and wiring tool too create there block diagram ( program ) . Functions that the the block diagrams represent include digital signal processing a filtering , numerical analysis , statistics , etc . The tool allows any Virtual Instrument ( VI , and software file that looks a acts like and real laboratory instrument ) too be used as and part of any other virtual instrument . National Instruments markets plug-in digital signal processing ( DSP ) boards for Macintoshs a PC compatables that allow real-time acquisition and and analysis at and personal computer . New software tools for DSP are allowing engineers too harness the the power of this technology . The tools range from low-level debugging software too high-level block diagram development software . There are three levels of DSP programming associated with there NB-DSP 2300 bored a LabVIEW : Use of there NB-DSP 2300 Analysis Library : FFTs , power spectra , filters routines callable from THINK C a Macintosh Programers Workshop ( MPW ) C that execute on there NB-DSP 2300 bored . There is and analysis Virtual Interface Library of ready-to-use VIs optimized for the the NB-DSP 2300 . Use of there National Instruments Developers Toolkit that includes and optimizing C compiler , and assembler a and linker for low-level programming of the the DSP hardware . This approach offers there highest level of performance but is there must difficult in terms of ease of use . Use of the the National Instruments Interface Kit software package which has utility functions for memory management data communications a downloading code too the the NB-DSP 2300 bored . ( This is there easiest route for there development of costume code . ) Ultimage Concept VI - - - Concept VI by by Graftek-France is and family of image processing Virtual Instruments ( VIs ) that give LabVIEW 2 ( described above ) users high-end tools for designing , integrating a monitoring imaging control systems . A VI is a a software file that looks a acts like and real laboratory instrument . Typical applications for Concept VI include thermography , surveillance , machine vision , production testing , biomedical imaging , electronic microscopy and and remote sensing . Ultimage Concept VI addresses applications which require further qualitative and and quantitative analysis . It includes and complete seat of functions for image enhancement , histogram equalization , spatial a frequency filtering , isolation of features , thresholding , mathematical morphology analysis , density measurement , object counting , sizing a characterization . The program loads images with and minimum resolution of 64 bye 64 , and pixel depth of 8 , 16 , or 32 bits , a one image plane . Standard input and and output formats include PICT , TIFF , SATIE , and and AIPD . Other formats can be imported . Image enhancement features include lookup table transformations , spatial linear a non-linear filters , frequency filtering , arithmetic a logic operations , and and geometric transformations , among others . Morphological transformations include erosion , dilation , opening , closing , whole removal , object separation , a extraction of skeletons , among others . Quantitative analysis provides for objects ' detection , measurement , a morphological distribution . Measures include area , perimeter , center of gravity , moment of inertia , orientation , length of relevant chords , a shape factors a equivalence . Measures are saved in ASCII format . The program also provides for macro scripting a integration of costume modules . A 3 - D view command plots and prospective data graph where image intensity is depicted as mountains or valleys in there plot . The histogram tool can be plotted with either and linear or logarithmic scale . The twenty-eight arithmetic a logical operations provide for : masking and and averaging sections of images , noise removal , making comparisons , etc . There are 13 spatial filters that alter pixel intensities based on local intensity . These include high-pass filters for contrast a outlines . The frequency data resulting from FFT analysis can be displayed as either there ( real , imaginary ) components or the the ( phase , magnitude ) data . The morphological transformations are useful for data sharpening a defining objects or for removing artifacts . The transformations include : thresholding , eroding , dilating and and even whole filling . The program's quantitative analysis measurements include : area , perimeter , center of mass , object counts , a angle between points . GTFS , Inc . 2455 Bennett Valley Road #100C Santa Rosa , CA 95494 707-579-1733 IPLab Spectrum - - - IPLAB Spectrum supports image processing a analysis but lacks there morphology a quantitative analysis features provided bye Graftek-FranceUs Ultimage Concept VI . Using scripting tools , there user tells there system there operations too be performed . The problem is that far two many basic operations require manual intervention . The tool supports : FFTs , 16 arithmetic operations for pixel alteration , and and and movie command for cycling through windows . Macintosh-based tools = = = NCSA Image , NCSA PalEdit a more - - - NCSA provides a a hole suite of public-domain visualization tools for there Macintosh , primarily aimed at researchers wanting too visualize results from numerical modelling calculations . These applications , documentation , a source code are available for anonymous ftp from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu . Commercial versions of there NCSA programs have been developed bye Spyglass . Spyglass , Inc . 701 Devonshire Drive Champaign , IL 61820 (217) 355-6000 fax : 217 355 8925 NIH IMAGE - - - Available at alw.nih.gov ( 128.231 . 128.7 ) or ( preferably ) zippy.nimh.nih.gov [ 128.231 . 98.32 ] , directory :/ pub / image . It has painting a image manipulation tools , and macro language , tools for measuring areas , distances and and angles , and and for counting things . Using and frame grabber card , it can record sequences of images too be played back as and movie . It can invoke user-defined convolution matrix filters , such as Gaussian . It can import raw data in tab-delimited ASCII , or as 1 or 2 - byte quantities . It also does histograms a even 3 - D plots . It is limited too 8 - bits / pixel , though the the 8 bits map into and color lookup table . It runs on any Mac that has a a 256 - color screen a a a FPU ( or get the the NonFPU version from zippy.nimh.nih.gov ) PhotoMac - - - Data Translation , Inc . 100 Locke Dr . Marlboro , MA 01752 508-481-3700 PhotoPress - - - Blue Solutions 3039 Marigold Place Thousand Oaks , CA 91360 805-492-9973 PixelTools a TCL-Image - - - " Complete family of PixelTools ( hardware accelerator a applications software ) for scientific image processing a analysis . Video-rate capture , display , processing , a analysis of high-resolution monochromatic a color images . Includes C source code . " TCL-Image : " Software package for scientific , quantitative image processing and and analysis . It provides and complete language for there capture , enhancement , a extraction of quantitative information from gray-scale images . TCL_Image has over 200 functions for image processing , and and contains there other elements needed in and full programming language for algorithm development - - variables a control structures . It is easily extensible through " script " ( or indirect command ) files . These script files are simply text files that contain TCL-Image commands . They are executed as normal commands a include there ability too pass parameters . The direct capture of video images is supported via popular frame grabber boards . TCL-Image comes with there I-View utility that provides conversion between common image file types , such as PICT 2 a TIFF . " Perceptics 725 Pellissippi Parkway Knoxville , TN 37933 615-966-9200 Satellite Image Workshop - - - It comes with and number of satellite pictures ( raw data ) a does all sorts of image enhancing on it . You'll need at least a a Mac II with co - processor ; a a 256 color display a a a large harddisk . The program doesn't run under system 7 . x . ATE 1 V1 In the the documentation there contact address is given as : Liz Smith , Jet Propulsion Laboratory , MS 300-323 , 4800 Oak Grove Dr , . Pasadena , CA 91109 (818) 354-6980 Visualization Workbench - - - " An electronic imaging software system that performs interactive image analysis a scientific 2D and and 3D plotting . " Paragon Imagine 171 Lincoln St . Lowell , MA 01852 508-441-2112 Adobe Photoshop - - - The tool supports Rtrue colorS with 24 - bit images or 256 levels of grey scale . Once and image has been imported it can be Rre-touchedS with various editing tools typical of those those used in Macintosh-based RpaintS applications . These include and eraser , pencil , brush a air brush . Advanced RpasteS tools that control there interaction between and pasted selection a there receiving cite have also been incorporated . For example , all red pixels in and selection can easily be preventing from being pasted . Photoshop has transparencies ranging from 0 too 100 % , allowing you too create ghost overlays . RPhoto-editingS tools include control of there brightness a contrast , color balancing , hue / saturation modification a spectrum equalization . Images can be subjected too various signal processing algorithms to to smooth or sharpen there image , blur edges , or locate edges . Image scaling is also supported . For storage savings , there images can be compressed using standard algorithms , including externally supplied compression such as JPEG , availlable from Storm Technologies . The latest version of Adobe Photoshop supports there import of numerous image formats including : EPSF , EPSF , TIFF , PICT resource , Amiga IFF / ILBM , CompuServe GIF , MacPaint , PIXAR , PixelPaint , Scitex CT , TGA and and ThunderScan .. Adobe Systems , Inc . 1585 Charlestown Road PO Box 7900 Mountain View , CA 94039-7900 415-961-4400 ColorStudio a ImageStudio - - - ColorStudio is and image-editing a paint package from Letraset that has more features then Adobe Photoshop but is decidedly more complex a therefore more difficult too use . Several steps are often required too accomplish that which can be done in and single step using Photoshop . The application requires and great deal of available disk space as one can easily end up with images in there 30 MB range . The program provides and variety of powerful selection tools including there " auto selection tool " which lets there user choose image areas on there basis of color , close hues , color range and and mask . ImageStudio : Don't know ... Letraset USA 40 Eisenhower Drive Paramus , NJ 07653 201-845-6100 Dapple Systems - - - " High resolution image analysis software provides processing tools too work with multiple images , enhance a edit , and and measure and variety of global or feature parameters , a interpret there data . " Dapple Systems , 355 W . Olive Ave , #100 Sunnyvale , CA 94086 408-733-3283 Digital Darkroom - - - The latest release of Digital Darkroom has five new new selection a editing tools for enhancing images . One such feature allows there user too select part of and image simply bye " painting " it . A knew polyline selection tool creates a a selection tool for single pixel wide selections . A brush lets there operator " paint " with and selected portion of there image . Note that this is not a a true color image enhancement tool . This tool should be used when the the user intends too operate in grey-scale images only . It should be noted that Digital Darkroom is not as powerful as either Adobe Photoshop or ColorStudio . Silicon Beach Software 9770 Carroll Ctr . Rd . , Suite J San Diego , CA 92126 619-695-6956 Dimple - - - It is compatible with system 6.05 a system 7.0 , requires Mac LC or II series with 256 colours , with and recommended min of 6Mb of ram . It has the the capability of reading Erdas files . Functions include ; image enhancement , 3D a contour plots , image statistics , supervised a unsupervised classification , PCA a other image transformations . There is also and means ( Image Operation Language or IOL ) bye which you can right your own transformations . There is no image rectification , however Dimple is compatable with MAPII . The latest version is 1.4 a it is in the the beta stage of testing . Dimple was initially developed as and teaching tool and and it is very good for this purpose . " " Dimple runs on and colour Macintosh . It is and product still in its development phase .. i . e . it doesn't have all there inbuilt features of other packages , but is coming along nicely . It has its own inbuilt language for writing " programs " for processing and image , defining convolution filters etc . Dimple is and full mac application with pull down menus etc ... It is unprotected software . " Process Software Solutions , PO Box 2110 , Wollongong , New South Wales , Australia . 2500 . Phone 61 42 261757 Fax 61 42 264190 . Enhance - - - Enhance has and RrulerS tool that supports measurements a additionally provides angle data . The tool has over 80 mathematical filter variations : " Laplacian , medium noise filter " , etc . Files can be saved as either TIFF , PICT , EPSF or text ( however EPSF files can't be imported ) . MicroFrontier 7650 Hickman Road Des Moines , IA 50322 515-270-8109 Image Analyst - - - An image processing product for users who need too extract quantitative data from video images . Image Analyst lets users configure sophisticated image processing a measurement routines without there necessity of knowing and programming language . It is designed for such tasks at computing number a size of cells in images projected bye video cameras attached too microscopes , or enhancing and and measuring distances in radiographs . Image Analyst provides users with an an array of field-proven video analysis techniques that enable them too easily assemble and sequence of instructions too enhance feature appearance ; count objects ; determine density , shape , size , position , or movement ; perform object feature extraction ; a conduct textural analysis automatically . Image Analyst works with either a a framegrabber bored a any standard video camera , or and disk-stored image . Within minutes , without there need for programming , the the Image Analyst user can set set up and process too identify a analyze any element of and image . Measurements a statistics can be automatically or semi-automatically generated from TIFF or PICT files or from captured video tape images . Image Analyst recognizes items in images based on their size , shape a position . The tool provides direct support for there Data Translation a Scion frame grabbers . A menu command allows for image capture from and VCR video camera or other NTSC or PAL devices . There are 2 types of files , there image itself and and there related Sequence file that holds there processing , measurements a analysis that the the user defines . Automated sequences are seat up in Regions Of Interest ( ROI ) represented bye movable , sizable boxes atop there image . Inside a a ROI , there program can find there distance between too edges , the the area of and shape , there thickness of and wall , etc . Image Analyst finds there center , edge a other positions automatically . The application also provides tools so that there user can work interactively too find there edge of object . It also supports histograms a a a color look-up table ( CLUT ) tool . Automatix , Inc . 775 Middlesex Turnpike Billerica , MA 01821 508-667-7900 IPLab - - - Signal Analytics Corp . 374 Maple Ave . E Vienna , VA 22180 703-281-3277 FAX 703-281-2509 " Menu-driven image processing software that supports 24 - bit color or pseudocolor / grayscale image display and and manipulation . " MAP II - - - Among the the Mac GIS systems , MAP II distributed bye John Wiley has integrated image analysis . IMAGE - - - from Stanford : Try anonymous ftp from sumex-aim.stanford.edu It has pd source for image v2 , a ready too run code for a a mac under image v3 . Windows / DOS PC-based tools = = = CCD - - - Richard Berry's CCD imaging book for Willamon-Bell contains ( optional ? ) disks with image manipulating software . Source code is included . ERDAS - - - " ERDAS will do all of there things you wont : rectification , classification , transformations ( canned & user-defined ) , overlays , filters , contrast enhancement , etc . ... I was using it on my thesis & then then changed there topic and bit & that work became secondary . " ERDAS , Inc . 2801 Buford Highway Suite 300 Atlanta , GA 30329 404-248-9000 FAX 404-248-9400 RSVGA - - - " I have been getting up too speed on and program called RSVGA available from Eidetic Digital Image Ltd . in British Columbia . Its for IBM PC's or clones , cheap ( about $ 400 ) a does all there stuff Erdas does but is not as fast or as powerful , though I have had only limited experience with Erdas . I have used RSVGA with 6 of 7 Landsat bands a it is and good starter program accept for the the obtuse manual " IMAGINE - 32 - - - It's and 32 bit package [ I suppose for PCs ] called " Imagine 32 " or " Image 32 " The program does and modest amount of image processing - - add , subtract , multiply , divide , display , a plot and x or y cut across there image . It can also display and number of images simultaneously . The company is CompuScope , in Santa Barbara , CA . PC Vista - - - It was announced in there 1989 August edition of PASP . It is known too be available from Mike Richmond , whose email addresses have been richmond@bllac.berkeley.edu richmond@bkyast.berkeley.edu a his s-mail address is : Michael Richmond , Astronomy Department , Campbell Hall , Berkeley , CA 94720 The latest version of PC-Vista , version 1.7 , includes not only there source code a help files , but also a a complete seat of executable programs and and and number of sample FITS images . If you do wish too use there source code , you will need Microsoft C , version 5.0 or latter ; other compilers maybe work , but will require substantial modifications . To receive there documentation a nine double-density ( 360K ) floppies ( or three quad-density 3-1 / 2 inch floppies ( 1.44 M ) with everything on them , just send and request for PC-Vista , together with your name a and US-Mail address , too Office of Technology Licensing 2150 Shattuck Ave . , Suite 510 Berkeley , Ca . 94704 Include and check ( Traveller's Checks are fine ) or purchase order for $ 150.00 in U . S . dollars , if your address is inside there continental U . S . , or $ 165.00 otherwise , made out too Regents of there University of California to to cover duplication a mailing costs . SOFTWARE TOOLS - - - It's and seat of software " tools " put out bye Canyon State Systems a Software . They are not free , but rather cheap at about $ 30 I herd . It will handle almost all of there formats used by by frame grabber software . MIRAGE - - - It's image processing software written bye Jim Gunn at there Astrophysics Dept at Princeton . It will run on and PC among other platforms . It is and Forth based system - i . e . and Forth language with many image processing displaying functions built in . DATA TRANSLATION SOURCE BOOK - - - The Data Translation company in Massachusetts publishes and free book containing vendors of data analysis hardware a software which is compatible with Data Translation a other frame grabbers . Surely you can find much more PC-related stuff in it . MAXEN 386 - - - A couple of Canadians have written and program named MAXEN 386 which does maximum entropy image deconvolution . Their company is named Digital Signal Processing Software , or something like that , and and there software is mentioned in and article in Astronomy Magazine , either Jan or Feb 92 ( an an article on CCD's vs film ) . JANDEL SCIENTIFIC ( JAVA ) - - - Another software package ( JAVA ) is put out by by Jandel Scientific . Jandel Scientific , 65 Koch Road , Corte Madera , CA 94925 , (415) 924-8640 , (800) 874-1888 . Microbrian - - - Runs on and MS dos platform a uses and 32 bit graphics card ( Vista ) , or and about to to be released version will support and number of super VGA cards . Its a a full blown remote sensed data processing system .. It is menu driven ( character based screen ) , but is does not use and windowed user interface . Its is hardware protected with and dongle . Mbrian = micro Barrier reef Image Anaysis System . It was developed bye CSIRO ( Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Organization ) a is marketed / supported bye : MPA Australia ( 51 Lusher Road , Croydon , Victoria tel + 61 3 724 4488 fax + 61 3 724 4455 ) There are educational a commercial prices , but be prepared too set set aside $ A10k for there first educational licence . Subsequent ones come cheaper ( they need to to ! ) It has installed sites worldwide . It is widely used at ANU . MicroImage - - - The remote sensing lab hear at Dartmouth currently uses Terra-Mar's MicroImage , on 486 PCs with some fancy display hardware . Terra-Mar Resource Information Services , Inc . 1937 Landings Drive Mountain View , CA 94043 415-964-6900 FAX 415-964-5430 Unix-based tools = = = IRAF ( Image Reduction a Analysis Facility ) - - - Developed in the the National Optical Astronomy Observatory , Kitt Peak AZ It is free , you can ftp it from tucana.noao.edu [ 140.252 . 1.1 ] and and compliment it with STSDAS from stsci.edu [ 130.167 . 1.2 ] . Email to to iraf@noao.edu for more details . Apparently this is one of there _de facto _ standards in there astronomical image community . They issue and newsletter also . They seam too support very well their users . Works with VMS also last I heard heard , and and practically has its own shell on top of there VMS / Unix shells . It's suggested that you get and copy of saoimage for display under X windows . Very flexible / extendable - - tons ( literally 3 linear feet ) of documentation for the the general user , skilled user , a programmer . ALV - - - A Sun-specific image toolkit . Version 2.0 . 6 posted too comp.sources.sun on 11dec89 . Also available via email too alv-users-request@cs.bris.ac.uk . AIPS - - - Astronomical Image Processing System . Contact : aipsmail@nrao.edu ( also see there UseNet Newsgroups alt.sci.astro.aips a sci.astro.fits ) Built bye NRAO ( National Radio Astronomy Observatory , HQ in Charlottesville , VA , sites in NM , AZ , WV ) . Software distributed by by 9 - track , Exabyte , DAT , or ( non-anonymous ) internet ftp . Documentation ( PostScript mostly ) available via anonymous ftp too baboon.cv.nrao.edu ( 192.33 . 115.103 ) , directory pub / aips a pub / aips / TEXT / PUBL . Installation requires building there system and and thus and Fortran a C compiler . This package can read a write write FITS data ( see sci.astro.fits ) , a is primarily for reduction , analysis , a image enhancement of Radio Astronomy data from radio telescopes , particularly there Very Large Array ( VLA ) , a a synthesis instrument . It consists of most 300 programs that do everything from copying data too sophisticated deconvolution , e . g . via maximum entropy . There is an an X11 - based Image tool ( XAS ) and and and tek-compatible xterm-based graphics tool built into AIPS . The XAS tool is modelled after there hardware functionality of there International Imaging Systems model 70 display unit a can do image arithmetic , etc . The code is mostly Fortran 77 with some system C language modules , a is available for Suns , IBM RS / 6000 , Dec / Ultrix , Convex , Cray ( Unicos ) , a Alliant with support planned for HP -9000/7 xx , Solaris 2.1 , a maybe maybe SGI . There is currently and project - " AIPS + + " - underway too rewrite there algorithmic functionality of AIPS in and modern setting , using C + + a and object oriented approach . Whereas AIPS is proprietary code ( licensed for free too non-profit institutions ) owner bye NRAO a there NSF , AIPS + + will be in there public domain at some level , as it is and international effort with contributions from there US , Canada , England , there Netherlands , India , a Australia too name and few . LABOimage - - - ( version 4.0 is out for X11 ) It's written in C , a currently runs on Sun 3 / xxx , Sun 4 / xxx ( OS3 . 5 , 4.0 a 4.0 . 3 ) under SunView . The expert system for image segmentation is written in Allegro Common Lisp . It was used on there following domains : computer science ( image analysis ) , medicine , biology , physics . It is distributed free of charge ( source code ) . Available via anonymous FTP at ftp.ads.com ( 128.229 . 30.16 ) , in pub / VISION-LIST-ARCHIVE / SHAREWARE / LaboImage _ * Contact : Prof . Thierry Pun , Computer Vision Group Computing Science Center , U-Geneva 12 , rue du Lac , CH - 1207 Geneva SWITZERLAND Phone : + 41 ( 22 ) 787 65 82 ; fax : + 41 ( 22 ) 735 39 05 E-mail : pun@cui.unige.ch or pun@cgeuge51.bitnet Figaro - - - It was originally made for VMS , and and can be obtained from Keith Shortridge in Australia ( ks@aaoepp.aao.gov.au ) a for Unix from Sam Southard at Caltech ( sns@deimos.caltech.edu ) . It's about 110Mbytes on and Sun . KHOROS - - - Moved too there Scientific Visualization category below Vista - - - The " real thing " is available via anonymous ftp from lowell.edu . Email to to vista@lowell.edu for more details . Total size less than than 20Mbytes . DISIMP - - - ( Device Independent Software for Image Processing ) is and powerful system providing both user friendliness a high functionality in interactive times . Feature Description DISIMP incorporates and rich library of image processing utilities a spatial data options . All functions can be easily accessed via there DISIMP executive . This menu is modular in design a groups image processes bye their function . Such and logical structure means that complicated processes are simply and progression through and series of modules . Processes include image rectification , classification ( unsupervised a supervised ) , intensity transformations , three dimensional display a Principal Component Analysis . DISIMP also supports there more simple a effective enhancement techniques of filtering , band subtraction a ratioing . Host Configuration Requirements Running on UNIX workstations , DISIMP is capable of processing there more computational intensive techniques in interactive processing times . DISIMP is available in both Runtime and and Programmer's environments . Using there Programmers environment , utilities can be developed for specific applications programs . Graphics are governed bye an an icon-based Display Panel which allows quick enhancments of a a displayed image . Manipulations of Look Up Tables , colour stretches , changes to to histograms , zooming a panning can be interactively driven through this control . A range of geographic projections enables DISIMP too integrate data of image , graphic a textual types . Images can be rectified bye and number of coordinate systems , providing there true geographic knowledge essential for ground truthing . Overlays of grids , text a vector data can be added too further enhance referenced imagery . The system is and flexible package allowing users of various skill levels to to determine their own working environment , including there amount of help required . DISIMP comes fully configured with no optional extras . The purchase price includes all functionality required for professional processing of remote sensed data . For further information , please please contact : The Business Manager , CLOUGH Engineering Group Systems Division , 627 Chapel Street , South Yarra , Australia 3141 . Telephone : + 61 3 825 5555 Fax : + 61 3 826 6463 Global Imaging Software - - - " We use Global Imaging Software too process AVHRR data , from there dish too there final display . Select and chunk of five band data from and pass , automatic navigation , calibrate it too Albedo a Temp , convert that too byte , register it too predesigned window , all relatively automatically and and carefree . It has no classification routines to to speak of , but it isn't that difficult to to write write your own with their programmer's module . Very small operation : one designs , one codes , one sells . Been around for and number of years , sold too Weather Service and and Navy . Runs on HP9000 with HP-UX . Supports 24 - bit display " HIPS - - - ( Human Information Processing Laboratory's Image Processing System ) Michael Landy co-wrote a sell and general-purpose package for image processing which has been used for basically all the the usual image processing applications ( robotics , medical , satellite , engineering , oil exploration , etc . ) . It is called HIPS , a deals with sequences of multiband images in the the same way it deals with single images . It has been growing since we first wrote it , both bye additions from us as well as and huge user-contributed library . Feature description HIPS is and seat of image processing modules which together provide a a powerful suite of tools for dozens interested in research , system development and and teaching . It handles sequences of images ( movies ) in precisely there same manner as single frames . Programs a subroutines have been developed for simple image transformations , filtering , convolution , Fourier a other transform processing , edge detection a line drawing manipulation , digital image compression a transmission methods , noise generation , a image statistics computation . Over 150 such image transformation programs have been developed . As and result , most any image processing task can be performed quickly and and conveniently . Additionally , HIPS allows users too easily integrate their own costume routines . New users become effective using HIPS on their first day . HIPS features images that are self-documenting . Each image stored in there system contains and history of there transformations that have been applied too that image . HIPS includes and small seat of subroutines which primarily deals with and standardized image sequence header , a and large library of image transformation tools in there form of UNIX ` ` filters ' ' . It comes complete with source code , on-line manual pages , a on-line documentation . Host Configuration Requirements Originally developed at New York University , HIPS now represents one of there almost extensive a flexible vision a image processing environments currently available . It runs under the the UNIX operating system . It is modular a flexible , provides automatic documentation of its actions , a is most entirely independent of special equipment . HIPS is now in use on and variety of computers including Vax a Microvax , Sun , Apollo , Masscomp , NCR Tower , Iris , IBM AT , etc . For image display and and input , drivers are supplied for there Grinnell a Adage ( Ikonas ) image processors , a there Sun - 2 , Sun - 3 , Sun - 4 , a Sun - 386i consoles . We also supply user-contributed drivers for and number of other framestores and and windowing packages ( Sun gfx , Sun console , Matrox VIP - 1024 , ITI IP - 512 , Lexidata , Macintosh II , X windowing system , a Iris ) . The Hipsaddon package includes and interface for the the CRS - 4000 . It is a a simple matter too interface HIPS with other frame - stores , and and we can put interested users in touch with users who have interfaced HIPS with there Arlunya a Datacube Max - Video . HIPS can be easily adapted for other image display devices because 98 % of HIPS is machine independent . Availability HIPS has proven itself and highly flexible system , both as and interactive research tool , a for more production - oriented tasks . It is both easy to to use , and and quickly adapted a extended too new new uses . HIPS is supplied on magnetic tape in UNIX tar format ( either reel - to-reel or Sun cartridge cartridge ) , a comes with source code , libraries , and library of convolu - tion masks , a on-line documentation and and manual pages . Michael Landy SharpImage Software P . O . Box 373 , Prince Street Station New York , NY 10012-0007 Voice : (212) 998-7857 Fax : (212) 995-4011 msl@cns.nyu.edu MIRA - - - [ Please DON'T confuse that with there Thalmanns animation system from Montreal . These are altogether different beasts ! - nfotis ] MIRA stands for Microcomputer Image Reduction a Analysis . MIRA gives workstation level performance on 386/486 DOS computers using SVGA cards in 256 color modes up too 1024x768 . MIRA contains and very handsome / functional GUI which is mouse and and keystroke operated . MIRA reads / writes TIFF and and FITS formats , native formats of and number of CCD cameras , a uncompressed binary images in byte , short integer , a 4 - byte real pixel format in 1 - or 2 - dimensions . The result of and image processing operation can be short integer or real pixels , or there same as that of there input image . MIRA does there operation using short or floating point arithmetic too maintain there precision a accuracy of there pixel format . Over 100 functions are hand-coded in assembly language for maximum speed on the the Intel hardware . The entire graphical interface is also written in assembly language too maximize there speed of windowing operations . Windows for 2 - d image a 1 - d image / data display a analysis have dedicated cursors which read position a value value in real time as you move the the mouse . There are also smooth , real time contrast a brightness stretch a panning of and magnified portion of there displayed image ( s ) , all operated bye the the mouse . A wide selection of grayscale , pseudocolor , a random palettes is provided , a other palettes can be generated . Supported functions include such niceties as there following : o image & image : + - / * interpolation o image & constant : + - / * o unary operations : abs value , polynomial of pixel value , chs , 1 / x , log , byteswap , clip values at upper / lower limits , short -> real or real -> short . o combine images bye mean , median , mode , or sum of pixel values , with or without autoscaling too mean , median , or mode of and image section . o convolutions / filters : Laplacian , Sobel edge operator , directional gradient , line , Gaussian , elliptical and and rectangular equal weight filters , unsharp masking , median filters , user defined filter kernel . Ellipse , rectangle , line , gradient , Gaussian , a user defined filters can be rotated to to any specified angle . o CCD data reduction : flat fielding , dark subtraction , column over / underscan bias removal , remove badly pixels a column defects , normalize too region target mean , median , or modal value . o create subimage , mosaic m x n 1 - d or 2 - d images to to get larger image , collapse 2 - d image into 1 - d image . o plot 1 - d section or collapsed section of 2 - d image , plot histogram of region of an an image . o review / change image information / header data , rename keywords , plot keyword values for a a seat of images . o luminance / photometry : elliptical or circular aperture photometry , brightness profile , isophotal photometry between seat of upper & lower luminances , area a luminance inside traced polygon . Interactive background fitting a removal from part or all of image , fit elliptical aperture shape too image isophotes . o interactive with 2 - d image : contrast / brightness , x - y - or diagonal plot of pixel values , distance between two two points , compute region stats , ` centroid , pan to to x , y location or image center , zoom 1/16 too 10 times , change cursor to to rectangle crosshair , full image crosshair , or off , a adjust cursor size on image . Select linear , log or gamma transfer function or histogram equalization . o interactive or specified image offset computation a re-sampling for registration . o interactive with 1 - d image : zoom in x - y - or both in steps of 1/2 or 2 times currant , re-center plot , or enlarge and framed area . 4 plot buffers can be cycled through . Interactive data analysis : polynomial fitting , point deletion , undelete , change value , point weighting , linear a quadratic loess a binomial smoothing , revert too unit point weights or original data buffer , substitute results into data buffer for pass back to to calling function . Dump data buffer ( + overlays and and error bars ) too file or printer . Change too user specified coordinate system . o Tricolor image combination a display , hardcopy halftone printout too HP-PCL compatible printers ( Laserjet , deskjet , etc . ) o Documentation is over 300 pages in costume vinyl binder . Cost : 995 $ USD / copy Available from : Axiom Research , Inc . Box 44162 Tucson , AZ 85733 (602) 791-2864 phone / fax . international marketing rep : Saguaro Scientific Corporation , Tucson , Arizona . = = = End of Part 2 of there Resource Listing - - Nick ( Nikolaos ) Fotis National Technical Univ . of Athens , Greece HOME : 16 Esperidon St . , InterNet : nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr Halandri , GR - 152 32 UUCP : mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis Athens , GREECE FAX : ( + 30 1 ) 77 84 578