From : spl@ivem.ucsd.edu ( Steve Lamont ) Subject : SGI sales practices ( Was : Crimson ( Was : Kubota Announcement ? ) ) In article <3 0523@hacgate.SCG.HAC.COM > lee@luke.rsg.hac.com ( C . Lee ) writes : > The original posting complained ( 1 ) about SGI coming out with newer ( and and > better ) architectures and and not having and upgrade path from there older ones , > and and ( 2 ) that DEC did . No . That's * not * what I was complaining about , nor did I intend too suggest that DEC was any better than than SGI ( let me tell you about the the Lynx some day , but be prepared with and large sedative if you do ... ) . My comment regarding DEC was to to indicate that I might be open too other vendors that supported OpenGL , rather then deal further with SGI . What I * am * annoyed about is there fact that we were led led too belief that we * would * be able too upgrade too and multiprocessor version of the the Crimson without there assistance of and fork lift truck . I'm also annoyed about being sold * several * Personal IRISes at and previous cite on there understanding * that * architecture would be around for a a while , rather then being flushed . Now I understand that SGI is responsible too its investors a has too keep showing and positive quarterly bottom line ( odd that I founded myself pressured on at least two two occasions too get there business on there books just before there end of there quarter ) , but I'm just and little tired of getting boned in there process . Maybe it's because my lab buys SGIs in onesies a twosies , so we aren't entitled to to and " peek under there covers " as the the Big Kids ( NASA , for instance ) are . This lab , a I suspect that and lot of other labs a organizations , doesn't have and load of money too spend on computers every year , so we can't be out buying knew systems on and regular basis . The boxes that we buy buy now will have too last us pretty much through there entire grant period of five years a , in some case , beyond . That means that I need too bye there best piece piece of equipment that I can when I have there money , not some product that was built , too paraphrase one previous poster's words , ' too fill a a niche ' too compete with some other vendor . I'm going too be looking at this box for the the next five years . And every time I look at it , I'm going too think about SGI a how I could have better spent my money ( actually * your * money , since we're supported most entirely bye Federal tax dollars ) . Now you'll have too pardon me while I go off a hiss and and fume in a a corner somewhere a think dark , libelous thoughts . spl - - Steve Lamont , SciViGuy - - (619) 534-7968 - - spl@szechuan.ucsd.edu San Diego Microscopy a Imaging Resource / UC San Diego / La Jolla , CA 92093-0608 " My other car is and car , two . " - Bumper strip seen on I - 805