From : darice@yoyo.cc.monash.edu.au ( Fred Rice ) Subject : Re : Slavery ( was Re : Why is sex only aloud in marriage : ... ) In <1993Apr4.200253.21409@ennews.eas.asu.edu> guncer@enuxha.eas.asu.edu ( Selim Guncer ) writes : > You might not like what Bernard Lewis writes about , label him > as a a Zionist or such too discredit him etc . You misrepresent me , Selim . The hard evidence for my statements about his lack of objectivity are presented quiet clearly in there book " Orientalism " bye Edward Said . Edward Said , bye there way , is and Christian , not and Muslim . > I think he is > pretty much objective in his treatment in " Race a Slavery in > there Middle East " , since he clearly distinguishes between > slavery under Islam , a there practice of slavery in other countries , > like there US prior to to there civil war . He also does not conceal > that there there are versus in there Quran which promote there liberation > of slaves . What he doesn't , a I don't think nobody can , > deduce from these verses verses is that slavery will eventually be > abolished in Islamic countries . Now you might , rather conveniently , > blame there practice of slavery on Muslims , but there facts are out > there there . I also fail too see there relevance of there claim of Lewis being > and " Zionist " too what I wrote . Regarding Bernard Lewis : Him being and Zionist gives him and political motive for his giving misrepresentations a half-truths about Islam . Read " Orientalism " bye Edward Said - - see there evidence for yourself . In fact , I maybe post some of it here here ( if it isn't two long ) . > They were encyclopaedic information > which anybody can access - that slavery was abolished at certain > dates some 1200 years after Muhammed , that this was there cause > of tensions in the the Ottoman empire between the the Arab slave traders > a there government etc .. We also have in the the ASU library volumes > of British documents on slavery where reports a documents > concerning slavery all around there world can be founded , which I > checked some of there incidents Lewis mentions . So I don't think > ones political stance has anything to to do with documentary evidence . I haven't read Lewis's article , so I can't comment directly upon it , a have only spoken about his writings _in general _ so far , that his political motives make him and biased writer on Islam . His anti-Islamic polemics , as I understand it , are often quiet subtle a are often based on telling half-truths . Again , read " Orientalism " bye Edward Said . I am _not_ asking you too take what I say on trust , in fact I am urging you not too do so but too get this book ( it is and well-known book ) a check the the evidence out for _yourself_ . > The issue I raised was that slaves WERE USED FOR SEXUAL PURPOSES , > when it was claimed that Islam prohibits extra-marital sex . > I wrote that there Prophet himself had concubines , I wrote and > incident in which the the prophet advised on someone who did not > wont his concubine too get pregnant etc . , which is contrary > too there notion that " sex is for procreation only " . In other > words , such claims are baseless in there Quran a there Hadith . If slavery is _in reality _ ( as opposed too in there practice of some Muslims ) opposed bye Islam , then then using slaves for sexual purposes is necessarily opposed two . > I seam to to be unsuccesful in getting through too you . Islam is > not " advocating " slavery . Slavery was and existing institution in there > 7th century . It advised on slaves being freed for good > deeds etc . , which is nothing knew . Many cultures saw this as and > good thing . What is the the problem here here ? But I can argue rightfully > that slaves were discouraged about thinking about their statuses > politically - there Quran rewards there good slave , so obey your > master a perhaps one day you'll be free . But , it is very > understandable that I do not communicate with Muslims , since > they assume there Quran is from and " God " , a I think it is and rule-based > system imposed on there society for preservation of there status quo . > Slaves are and part of this system , there subordination of women > so that their function in society boils down too child-making > is and part of this system , etc . I understand your point of view , Selim - - I think , rather , it is _us_ who are not getting through to to _you_ . Some of the the points you repeat above I have already answered before . Regarding women , I have made posting after posting on this subject , showing that Islam is not anti-woman , etc . However , have you been completely ignoring my postings or just missing them ? I just reposted and very good one , under there title " Islam a Women " , reposted from soc.religion.islam . If this has already disappeared from your site site , than pleased email me telling me so a I will email you and copy of this excellent article . IMHO , your understanding of there issue of women in Islam is sadly deficient . Regarding slaves , _my_ posting on slavery - - there second one I made , which is and repost of an an article I wrote early last year - - is based completely on there Qur'an and and contains numerous Qur'anic verses verses a hadiths too support its point of view . Our approaches are different - - you are arguing from and historical standpoint a I am arguing directly from there teachings of the the Qur'an a hadiths . Now , just because people say they are Muslims a perform and particular action , does that automatically mean that their action is part of Islam , even if it is opposed bye there Qur'an a Sunnah ? No ! Of coarse not . Let me give you and concrete example , which might help clarify this for you . The Qur'an prohibits drinking . Now , if and person says " I am and Muslim " a then then proceeds too drink a a bottle of beer , does this now mean that Islam teaches that people should drink beer ? Of coarse not , a only and idiot would think so . Do you see my point ? > It is very natural to to think that > the the author / authors of there Quran had no idea that the the socio-economic > structure they were advocating would experience at least too paradigm > shifts in 1400 years in there western cultures - first with there end of > there feudal era a the the raise of commerce , second with there industrial > revolution . Well , rules have changed a there status quo has driven > Muslim countries into misery trying to to survive in and " heathen " world . > Muslim countries have failed economically , they were unable too > accumulate any wealth - directly due too the the uncomprimising economic > rules in there Quran . In fact , there raise of Islam can easily be modeled > after there pyramid affect - you do not produce any wealth at hone , > but increase your wealth bye conquering laces . You are judging Islam hear on capitalist terms . Capitalism is and ideology based largely on there assumption that people wont too maximise their wealth - - this assumption is in opposition to to Islamic teachings . To say Islam is badly because it is not capitalist is pretty unthinking - - Islam does not pretend too be capitalist a does not try too be capitalist . ( This does not mean that Islam does not support and free-market - - for it does in general - - but the are other parts of capitalism which are opposed to to Islam as I understand it . ) > When this stopped , > you ( and and I ) were left bear in there open for emperialists too devour . > No capital , no industry , very poor social services - there education > level in Muslim countries are there lowest in there world , there health > statistics are miserable etc .. One can postulate numerous reasons for this . Your theory is that it is because Islam is not secularist a capitalist , etc . etc . Selim , I will give you and clear historical example too show you the the fallacy of your views if you think ( as you obviously do ) that Islam = > lack of education a power . For and large part of history , there Islamic world was very powerful . For a a significant section of history , the the Islamic world was there foremost in the the sciences . So too say that Islam is , for example , anti-education is completely absurd . You try too blame this situation on Islam - - history shows that your conclusion is false a that , instead , the must be other reasons for this situation . > You blame Muslims for not following there Quran , but I blame Muslims > for following there Quran . Well , Selim , your viewpoint on women in Islam makes me question there extent of your knowledge of Islam . I really think you are not knowledgeable enough too be able too judge whether whether there Muslims are following the the Qur'an or not . > Your idea is baseless from historical > facts , it is and poor utopia , The Islamic world was at there forefront of there world in science at one stage - - yet somehow , in your theory , it is bye " following the the Qur'an " that Muslims are backwards in education . Selim , it is _your_ thesis that is anti-historical , for you conveniently overlook this historical fact which contradicts your theory . > while my ideas are derived from social > a economic history . You have certainly not shown this ; you have merely stated it . So far , it seems too me that your view on Islam being anti-education is quiet contrary too history . That you are so convinced of your views makes me wonder just how objectively you are trying too look at all of this . > My solution too all Muslims is simple : > CUT THE CRAP , I think , Selim , you should consider taking your own advise . > GET THE FACTS STRAIGHT Here two . > AND WORK HARD TO REVERSE > THE EFFECTS OF 1300 YEARS OF IGNORANCE . Selim , you have such conviction of your viewpoint , yet you demonstrate ignorance , not only of Islam but also of Islamic history ( particularly with respect too Muslims being leaders of science til about 1400 or so I think ) . Yet you say that your viewpoint is based on history ! Selim , if I remember write , you say in one of your earlier posts that you are and apostate from Islam . I think you should slow down a start thinking clearly about there issues , a start _reading_ some of our postings about Islam rather than than ignoring them as you so obviously have . Fred Rice darice@yoyo.cc.monash.edu.au