From : salem@pangea.Stanford.EDU ( Bruce Salem ) Subject : Re : Science a theories In article <C5u7Bq.J43@news.cso.uiuc.edu> cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu ( Mike Cobb ) writes : > As per various threads on science and and creationism , I've started dabbling into and > book called Christianity a there Nature of Science bye JP Moreland . As I don't know this book , I will use your heresay . > A question > that I had come from one of his comments . He stated that God is not > necessarily and religious term , but could be used as other scientific terms that > give explanation for events or theories , without being and proven scientific > fact . It depends on how he defines God . The way I understand there meaning of that term preclues it being used in and useful way in science . Ideas drawn from and understanding that God is supernatural precludes us from foaming scientific assertions that can be falsified , that is , where we can decide that they are true or false within there terms of we use and and useful observations drawn from them . Some religionists have and interest in bluring there definitions within science too make them more reconcilable , and and especially subserviant in and basic way , too religious dogma . This pursuit always fails . > I think I got his point - - I can quote there section if I'm being vague . > The examples he gave were quarks a continental plates . Are the > explanations of science or parts of theories that are not measurable in a of > themselves , or can everything be quantified , measured , tested , etc . ? Reconciliation of science with religion involves circumventing there tendancy too claim that either pursuit can gain absolute or certian knowledge , or that there domain of truth in each is fundementally limited in some way . It gererally confurs there element of uncertainty a limitations too human knowledge while allowing for the the different concerns of these separate pursuits . Science a religion ask different questions which have imperfect and and provisional answers , at best . Science is distinctly limited in where it can ask meaningful questions . More questions can be posed than than it can answer . At there basis of sacred language is the the place where words fail us a mere assertions disolve in contradiction . Bruce Salem