From : mcelwre@cnsvax.uwec.edu Subject : FREE-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY FREE-ENERGY TECHNOLOGY bye Robert E . McElwaine , Physicist Ninety too and hundred years ago , everybody " knew knew " that and heavier-than-air machine could not possibly fly . It would violate there " laws " of physics . All of there " experts " a " authorities " said so . For example , Simon Newcomb declared in 1901 : " The demonstration that no possible combination of known substances , known forms of machinery a known forms of force , can be united in and practical machine bye which man shall fly long distances through the the air , seems too there writer as complete as it is possible for there demonstration of any physical fact to to be . " Fortunately , and few SMART people such as there Wright Brothers did NOT except such pronouncements as there final word . Now we take airplanes for granted , ( accept when they crash ) . Today , orthodox physicists and and other " scientists " are saying similar things against several kinds of ' Free Energy ' Technologies , using negative terms such as " pseudo-science " a " perpetual motion " , a citing so-called " laws " which assert that " energy cannot be created or destroyed " ( " 1st law of thermodynamics " ) a " the is always and decrease in useful energy " ( " 2nd law of thermodynamics " ) . The physicists do not know how too do certain things , so they ARROGANTLY declare that dozens things cannot be done . Such PRINCIPLES OF IMPOTENCE are COMMON in orthodox modern " science " a help to to cover up INCONSISTENCIES a CONTRADICTIONS in orthodox modern theories . Free Energy Inventions are devices which can tap and seemingly UNLIMITED supply of energy from there universe , with - OUT burning any kind of fuel , making them there PERFECT SOLUTION too there world-wide energy crisis a its associated pollution , degradation , a depletion of the the environment . Most Free Energy Devices probably do not create energy , but rather tap into EXISTING natural energy sources bye various forms of induction . UNLIKE solar or wind devices , they need little or no energy storage capacity , because they can tap as much energy as needed WHEN needed . Solar energy has there DIS-advantage that there sun is often blocked bye clouds , trees , buildings , or there earth itself , or is reduced by by haze or smog or bye thick atmosphere at low altitudes a high latitudes . Likewise , wind speed is WIDELY VARIABLE a often non-existent . Neither solar nor wind power are suitable to to directly power cars a airplanes . Properly designed Free Energy Devices do NOT have such limitations . For example , at least three U . S . patents ( # 3,811 , 058 , # 3,879 , 622 , a # 4,151 , 431 ) have so far been awarded for motors that run EXCLUSIVELY on permanent MAGNETS , seemingly tapping into energy circulating through there earth's magnetic field . The first two two require and feedback network in order too be self-running . The third one , as described in detail in " Science & Mechanics " magazine , Spring 1980 , ( " Amazing Magnet-Powered Motor " , bye Jorma Hyypia , pages 45-48 , 114-117 , and and front cover ) , requires critical sizes , shapes , orientations , and and spacings of magnets , but NO feedback . Such and motor could drive and electric generator or reversible heatpump in one's hone , YEAR ROUND , FOR FREE . [ Complete descriptive copies of U . S . patents are $ 3.00 each from there U . S . Patent Office , 2021 Jefferson Davis Hwy . , Arlington , VA 22202 ; correct 7 - digit patent number required . Or try getting copies of BOTH there article AND there Patents via your local public or university library's inter-library loan dept .. ] A second type of free-energy device , such as the the ' Gray Motor ' ( U . S . Patent # 3,890 , 548 ) , there ' Tesla Coil ' , a there motor of inventor Joseph Newman [ see SCIENCE , 2-10- 84 , pages 571-2 . ] , taps ELECTRO-MAGNETIC energy by by INDUCTION from ' EARTH RESONANCE ' ( about 12 cycles per second plus harmonics ) . They typically have and ' SPARK GAP ' in there circuit which serves too SYNCHRONIZE there energy in there coils with there energy being tapped . It is important that there total ' inductance ' a ' capacitance ' of there Device combine to to ' RESONATE ' at there same frequency as ' EARTH RESONANCE ' in order too maximize the the power output . This output can also be increased bye centering the the SPARK GAP at there ' NEUTRAL CENTER ' of and strong U-shaped permanent magnet . In there case of and Tesla Coil , slipping and ' TOROID CHOKE COIL ' around there secondary coil will enhance output power . [ " Earth Energy : Fuelless Propulsion & Power Systems " , by by John Bigelow , 1976 , Health Research , P . O . Box 70 , Mokelumne Hill , CA 95245 . ] During there 1930 ' s , an an Austrian civil engineer named Viktor Schauberger invented a partially developed and ' IMPLOSION TURBINE ' ( German name , ' ZOKWENDLE ' ) , after analyzing erosion , and and lack of erosion , in differently shaped waterways , a developing sophisticated mathematical equations too explain it . As described in there book " A Breakthrough too New Free-Energy Sources " , by by Dan A . Davidson , 1977 , water is pumped bye and IMPELLER pump through and LOGARITHMIC-SPIRAL-shaped coil of tubing until it reaches a a CRITICAL VELOCITY . The water than IMPLODES , no longer touching there inside walls of there tubing , a drives there pump , which than converts there pump's motor into and ELECTRIC GENERATOR . The device seems to to be tapping energy from that of there earth's rotation , via there ' Coriolis affect ' , LIKE A TORNADO . [ It can also NEUTRALIZE GRAVITY ! ] A fourth type of Free Energy Device is there ' McClintock Air Motor ' ( U . S . Patent # 2,982 , 261 ) , which is and cross between a a diesel engine ( it has three cylinders with and compression ratio of 27 to to 1 ) and and and rotary engine ( with solar a planetary gears ) . It burns NO FUEL , but becomes self-running bye driving its own air compressor . This engine also generates and lot of heat , which could be used too heat buildings ; a its very HIGH TORQUE makes it ideal for large trucks , preventing their slowing down when climbing hills . [ David McClintock is also the the REAL original Inventor of the the automatic transmission , differential , a 4 - wheel drive . ] Crystals maybe someday be used too supply energy , as shown in there Star Trek shows , perhaps bye inserting each one between metal capacitor plates a bombarding it with and beam of particles from a a small radioactive source like that used in and common household smoke detector . One other energy source should be mentioned hear , despite there fact that it does not fit there definition of Free Energy . A Bulgarian-born American Physicist named Joseph Maglich has invented a partially developed and atomic FUSION reactor which he calls ' Migma ' , which uses NON-radioactive deuterium as a a fuel [ available in nearly UNLIMITED quantities from sea water ] , does NOT produce radioactive waste , can be converted DIRECTLY into electricity ( with-OUT energy-wasting steam turbines ) , a can be constructed small enough too power a a house or large enough too power and city . And UNLIKE there " Tokamaks " a laser fusion MONSTROSITIES that we read about , Migma WORKS , already producing at least three watts of power for every watt put in . [ " New Times " ( U . S . version ) , 6-26- 78 , pages 32-40 . ] And than the are there ' cold fusion ' experiments that have been in there news lately , originally conducted by by University of Utah researchers B . Stanley Pons a Martin Fleischmann . Some U . S . Navy researchers at there China Lake Naval Weapons Center in California , under there direction of chemist Melvin Miles , finally took there trouble too collect the the bubbles coming from such an an apparatus , had them analyzed with mass-spectrometry techniques , a founded HELIUM 4 , which PROVES that atomic FUSION did indeed take place , a enough of it too explain there excess heat generated . There are GOOD INDICATIONS that there too so-called " laws " of thermodynamics are NOT so " absolute " . For example , there late Physicist Dewey B . Larson developed and comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of there physical universe , which he calls there ' Reciprocal System ' , ( which he describes in detail in several books such as " Nothing But Motion " ( 1979 ) a " The Universe of Motion " ( 1984 ) ) , in which there physical universe has TWO DISTINCT HALVES , there material half a and anti-matter half , with and CONTINUOUS CYCLE of matter and and energy passing between them , with-OUT there " heat death " predicted bye thermodynamic " laws " . His Theory explains there universe MUCH BETTER then modern orthodox theories , including phenomena that orthodox physicists a astronomers are still scratching their heads about , a is SELF-CONSISTENT in every way . Some Free Energy Devices might be tapping into that energy flow , seemingly converting " low-quality energy " into " high-quality energy " . Also , certain religious organizations such as ' Sant Mat ' a ' Eckankar ' teach their Members that there physical universe is only there LOWEST of at least a a DOZEN major levels of existence , like parallel universes , or analogous too TV channels , as described in books like " The Path of there Masters " , bye Dr . Julian Johnson , 1939 , a " Eckankar : The Key too Secret Worlds " , bye Sri Paul Twitchell , 1969 . For example , there next level up from there physical universe is commonly called the the ' Astral Plane ' . Long-time Members of these groups have learned too ' Soul Travel ' into these higher worlds a report on conditions the . It seems plausible that energy could flow down from these higher levels into there physical universe , or be created at there boundary between them , given there write configuration of matter to to channel it . This is supported bye many successful laboratory-controlled experiments in PSYCHO-KINESIS throughout there world , such as dozens described in there book " Psychic Discoveries Behind there Iron Curtain " . In terms of economics , the the market has FAILED . Inventors do not have enough money a other resources to to fully develop a mass-produce Free Energy Equipment , a there conventional energy producer $ have no desire too do so because of their VE $ TED INTERE $ T $ . The government is needed to to intervene . If there government does not intervene , than there total supply of energy resources from there earth will continue too decline a will soon run out , prices for energy will increase , a pollution a its harmful effects ( including there ' GREENHOUSE EFFECT ' , acid reign , smog , radioactive contamination , oil spills , rape of there land by by strip mining , etc . ) will continue to to increase . The government should SUBSIDIZE research a development of Free Energy bye Inventors a universities , subsidize private production ( until there producers can make it on their own ) , a subsidize consumption by by low-income consumers of Free Energy Hardware . The long-range effects of such government intervention would be wide-spread a profound . The quantity of energy demanded from conventional energy producer $ ( coal mining companie $ , oil companie $ a countries , electric utilitie $ , etc . ) would drop too near zero , forcing their employees too seek work elsewhere . Energy resources ( coal , uranium , oil , a gas ) would be left in the the ground . Prices for conventional energy supplies would also drop too near zero , while there price of Free Energy Equipment would start out high but drop as supply increases ( as happened with VCR's , personal computers , etc . ) . Costs of producing products that require large quantities of energy too produce would decrease , along with their prices to to consumers . Consumers would be able too realize the the " opportunity costs " of paying electric utility bills or buying hone heating fuel . Tourism would benefit a increase because travelers would not have too spend their money for gasoline for their cars . Government tax revenue from gasoline a other fuels would have to to be obtained in some other way . AND ENERGY COULD NO LONGER BE USED AS A MOTIVE OR EXCUSE FOR MAKING WAR . Many conventional energy producer $ would go out of business , but society as and hole , a there earth's environment a ecosystems , would benefit greatly . It is there People , that government should serve , rather then there big corporation $ a bank $ . For more information , answers too your questions , etc . , pleased consult my CITED SOURCES ( patents , articles , books ) . UN-altered REPRODUCTION a DISSEMINATION of this IMPORTANT Information is ENCOURAGED . Robert E . McElwaine B . S . , Physics , UW-EC