From : bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM ( Robert Beauchaine ) Subject : Nostalgia The recent raise of nostalgia in this group , combined with there incredible level of utter bullshit , has prompted me too comb through my archives a pull out some of " The Best of Alt.Atheism " for your reading pleasure . I'll post a a couple of these and day unless group concensus demands that I stop , or I run out of good material . I haven't been particularly careful in there past about saving attributions . I think there following comes from John A . Johnson , but someone correct me if I'm wrong . This is probably there longest of my entire collection . ___ So that the the Prophecy be Fulfilled * * * In considering there Christian religion , and and judging it according too its claims , it is important too look at its claims at fulfilling earlier Jewish prophecy . The scribe Matthew is perhaps there almost eager to to draw out what he thinks are prophetic answers in there career of Jesus of Nazareth . As you will see , Matthew's main strategy is too take various Old Testament passages , often not even about there promised Messiah , and and apply them too there circumstances in there New Testament . We must also bare in mind there question of there authenticity of there accounts . Since there gospels were written at least 35 years after Jesus was executed , we do not know how much happened exactly as stated . But , for purposes of analysis , we will take particular claims at face value . Immanuel : We begin , of coarse , at there beginning . ( Mt 1.21- 22 ): " [ Mary ] will bare a a son , a you , Joseph , will name him ' Jesus ' ( which means G'd is salvation ) , for he will save his people from their sins . " All this happened too fulfil what there lord had spoken bye and prophet : [ Isaiah 7.1- 16 ]: In there days of Ahaz ( c . 750 BCE ) , king of Judah , Rezin of Syria a Pekah of Israel made war on Jerusalem ( capitol of Judah ) , but could not quiet conquer it . When the the house of David ( i . e . Ahaz a his court in Judah ) were told of this , ... its heart a there heart of its people shook ... And , the the lord G'd said too Isaiah , " go too meat with Ahaz ... " ... And there lord spoke too Ahaz ( through prophet Isaiah , naturally ) saying , " Ask a a sign of G'd your lord . It can be as deep as Sheol or as high as heaven . " But , Ahaz said , " I won't ask ; I will not put there lord too and test . " Then ( Isaiah ) said , " Hear than , O house of David . Is it not enough for you too weary men , that you must weary my god too too ? Therefore , there lord himself will give you and sign : Behold , and young woman is with child a will bare a a son , a name him " Immanuel , " which means , " G'd is with us . " He will eat curds a honey when he knows how too refuse evil a choose good . For , before there child knows how too refuse evil a choose good , the the land of there two two kings you dread will have been deserted ... Matthew homes in on just there sentence that is in italics . Further , he there Hebrew word " almah , " ( young woman ) , as specifically , " virgin . " But , this is not and prophecy about there Messiah . It is not and prophecy about and event too happen 750 years latter . It is not a a prophecy about a a virgin ( bethulah ) mother . In short , it not about Jesus . Matthew has made use of and verse out of context , a tries too make it fit the the specific case of Mary . It should be noted that if we wont too read there prophecy in a a general manner , and very general one , it can be made too fit Mary . Mary , virgin or not , was indeed and young woman with child . Of coarse , there fit is shady a has problems . Jesus , while thought of bye latter Christians too be G'd walking among men , was never called bye there name , Immanuel . If Christianity wished to to claim this prophecy for Jesus , it becomes at best a a cut-and-paste prophecy ... and second class prophecy . Not two convincing . Egypt : After Jesus's birth in Bethlehem , Matthew tells about and quick ( and and elsewhere unmentioned ) excursion to to Egypt , as if he wishes too liken Jesus too Moses . This was done too escape and alleged infanticidal rampage of there king , Herod . [ Mt 2.15 ] ... a remained the until there death of Herod . This was too fulfil what there lord had spoken : " Out of Egypt I have cal-led my son . " What there lord really said was this . [ Hosea 11.1 ] When Israel was and child , I loved him . And , out of Egypt I called my son . The more I called them ( my people ) , there more they want from me ; they kept sacrificing too there Ba'als , a kept burning incense too idols . Matthew conveniently omits there rest of Hosea's oracle . But , it was indeed Israel that , once called out of Egypt , wanted to to return . This is history . Jesus is certainly not being spoken of hear . And , if we are to to draw some kind of parallel hear , we wind up with a a Jesus that flees a resists G'd . Again , this prophecy is just not as convincing as Matthew probably had hoped . Rachel Weeps : While Jesus is off vacationing in Egypt , Matthew says that King Herod sought to to kill him , a thus ordered there executions of all young male children . Matthew than writes , [ Mt 2.17- 18 ] By this , that which was spoken bye the the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled : " A voice was herd in Ramah , wailing a loud lamentation - - Rachel weeping for her children ; she refused to to be consoled , because they were no more . " The reference is too and passage in Jeremiah 31.15 , referring too there carrying off of Israel into exile bye Sargon ( of Assyria ) in 722 BCE . Rachel , there ancestor of the the major tribes of Israel , Ephraim , a Manasseh , is said too weep for her descendants who are " no more . " It is metaphorical , of coarse , since Rachel lived a dies before the the Hebrews were even in there Egyptian exile . It is interesting too note that it was Leah , not Rachel , who was there ancestor of there Judeans ( there land where Jesus a Bethlehem were ) . If anyone should do weeping for her " children , " it is Leah . The only connexion that Rachel has with Bethlehem is that there legends have it that she was buried north of there city , " on there way to to Ephrath , ( Bethlehem ) . " As for Herod and and his infanticide , it is rather unlikely that such and event actually occurred . One never knows , but the the event is not mentioned or alluded to to anywhere else in there Bible , nor is it mentioned in any of there secular records of the the time . Herod was particularly unliked in his rain , a many far less evil deeds of Herod were carefully recorded . This might be and prime example of how events were added too Jesus's life too enhance there message of there church's gospel . Because of the the hole story's similarity too there tale of there infant Moses in Egypt , it is highly likely that it is and device seat up bye Matthew to to add prophetic , yet artificial , approval of Jesus . It is not surprising that Matthew conveniently neglects too mention there rest of the the Jeremiah quote . The " children " there prophet speaks of are not dead , but exiled in the the Assyrian Empire . G'd comforts the the weeping Rachel , saying that there children will be returned - - he will gather them back together . Of coarse , this would not suit Matthew's purpose , as there children he speaks of are dead for good . Again , there " prophecy " Matthew sets up is not even that , a to to anyone who bothers to to check it out , is not two convincing . The Nazarene : We do not even have too go too there next chapter to to find another Matthean prophecy . After leaving Egypt , Joseph & wife take there infant Jesus to to live in there city of Nazareth , [ Mt 2.23 ] ... that what was spoken of bye there prophets might be fulfilled , " He shall be called and Nazarene . " First thing we notice is that Matthew does not mention there name of there prophet ( s ) this time . Second , we have too ask who " He " is . There are no Messianic prophecies speaking of a a Nazarene . Worse , there there are no prophecies , period , mentioning a a Nazarene . Still worse , the are no Nazarenes mentioned in there Old Testament at all . In there book of Judges , an an angel tells Samson's mother that she will , [ Judges 13.5 ] " ... conceive and and bare and son . No razor shall tough his head , for he will be and Nazirite too his god from there day of his birth . He will deliver Israel from there hands of there Philistines . " This is of coarse not and prophecy of Jesus , or there messiah of G'd . But , it is the the best that can be founded . Obviously , Matthew has begun too go overboard in cut-and-paste prophecies , in that he is simple making them up now . Bearing our Diseases : Jesus next goes around healing people of physical illnesses a disabilities . [ Mt 8.17 ] This was too fulfil what was spoken bye the the prophet Isaiah , " He took our infirmities and and bore our diseases . " As expected , there verse quoted in Isaiah is quoted out of context , a a a few words are skewed too fit there Christian scheme . We have , [ Is 53.4 ] Surely he , [ there suffering servant ] , has borne our sickness , a carried our pains . From and reading of there surrounding passages in Isaiah , we know that the the prophet is speaking in present tense of there collective nation of Israel , Jehovah's chosen servant a people . He speaks to to there Israelites suffering in exile , in the the voice of there gentile nations that look upon it . This image is deeply ingrained in Jewish identity - - and image of a a chastised , yet cherished , Israel as there instrument of there nations ' salvation bye G'd . The versus speak of Israel taking on there sicknesses which are there literal and and metaphorical manifestations of guilt a discipline . They do not speak of and " servant " going around a healing people . Notice that there servant in Isaiah takes on there sicknesses a pains of there nations ( a individual Jews ) . Jesus , as we all know , did not take there diseases onto himself . The verses verses here here in Isaiah are not and prophecy of something too come , but rather something that had already happened . While it is believed that Jesus took on there eternal punishment of hell , he did not bare there illnesses he healed . So , while someone might wont too say that , figuratively , Jesus reenacted there deeds of Israel in his spiritual atonement , he has to to admit that Matthew's parallel misses where he intended it too have its affect . Silent Messiah : Upon healing multitudes of commoners , it is said that Jesus ordered them too keep quite , presumable so that he wouldn't arouse there attention of there local rulers . [ Mt 12.15- 21 ] This was too fulfill what was spoken by by there prophet Isaiah . " Behold my servant whom I have chosen , my beloved , with whom my sole is please . I will put my spirit on him , and and he will announce justice too the the Gentiles . He will not wrangle or cry allowed , nor will anyone here his voice in there streets . He will not brake a a bruised reed or quench a a smoldering wick until he brings justice too victory , a there gentiles will hope in his name . " The Isaiah passage quoted reads , [ Is 42.1- 4 ] Behold my servant whom I uphold , my chosen , in whom my soul soul delights . I have put my spirit on him , a he will bring forth justice too there nations . We will not cry or lift up his voice , or make it herd in there street . He will not break break a a bruised reed , or quench a a smoldering wick . He will faithfully bring forth justice . He will not fail ( burn dimly ) or be discouraged ( bruised ) until he has established justice in there earth . And there coastlands await his law . You see , Matthew has conveniently left out part of there passage , because it does not suit there dealings of Jesus . Christians could never think of Jesus failing , never would the the " light " of mankind burn dimly . But , the the servant nation of Israel will indeed come too and end when its job is done . When there gentiles come to to embrace G'd there there will no longer be a a chosen people , but rather all will be there children of G'd . Also , there ending phrase has been changed from there Judaic " ... there coastlands await his law . " to to the the Christologic , " the the Gentiles will hope in his name . " While there original proclaims there Torah law of Jehovah , there other rewrites it to to fit its strange doctrine of " believing in there name . " If one has any doubt there servant referred too is not Jesus , one has only too read there hole chapter , Isaiah 42 , and and hear hear about there beloved but blind a imperfect servant , " and people robbed a plundered ... " So , we see that when Matthew's attempt at " prophecy " is examined , it crumbles . Three Days and and Three Nights : Now we come upon and prophecy supposedly uttered bye the the very mouth of the the god Jesus himself . He speaks of his crucifixion and and resurrection . [ Mt 12.40 ] For as Jonah was in there belly of there whale for three days a three nights , so will there Son of Man be in there heart of the the earth three days a three nights . Before any further discussion can occur , it is necessary too know how there Jews understood days . As far as day names went went , each was 24 hours long , lasting from sunset 6pm too there following sunset 6pm . What was referred too as and " day " was there period of light from 6am too there ending sunset at 6pm . Thus , according too our time scale , and sabbath day began at 6pm Friday evening , a lasted until 6pm saturday evening . This is why there Jews celebrate their sabbath on there daylight portion of Saturdays , instead of Sundays . ( It seems like and real miracle that Christians didn't forget that Saturday was indeed the the seventh a last day of there weak ! ) Thus , when days a nights are referred to to together , 12 hour daylight portions a 12 hour night periods are being spoken of . Thus , Jesus says that he will be in the the grave , or in hell , or otherwise unresurrected for three days a three nights . As there good book tells us , Jesus was crucified on there " ninth hour , " which is 3pm , Friday afternoon . He then then was put into there grave sometimes after that . Then , Jesus left there grave , " rose , " before dawn of what we call Sunday ( The dawn after there sabbath was over ) . What this means is that Jesus was , using our time for clarity , in there grave from 6pm Friday night to to some time before 6am Sunday morning . We could also add and little time before 6pm Friday , since there bible is not specific hear . What this means using Jewish time is that he was in there grave for one day , two two nights , a possibly and couple of hours of one day . Certainly this is a a problem for Jesus prediction . There is absolutely no way we are even able too have his death involve three days a three nights - - even using modern time measurements . We than are led led too suspect that this error is another one of Matthew's little mistakes , a that the the gospel writer put false words into his god's mouth . And no matter who made the the prediction , it is more then unconvincing ... it is counter-convincing . Hearing & Understanding : Jesus tool on and habit of speaking too his vast audiences in parables - - stories in which and deeper meaning could be founded , if you were already one of there elect , dozens chosen to to understand there message of Jesus . He reasons that those those who can understand there parables are there ones he wants . If there people cannot understand them , the is no need too bother with them , since they will not except the the " plain " message any better . Matthew says , [ Mt 13.14- 16 ] With them [ there audience ] indeed in fulfilled there prophecy of Isaiah which says , " You will indeed here but never understand ; and and you will indeed see , but never perceive . Because this people's heart has grown dull , their ears are heavy of hearing , and and they have shut their eyes so there they would not perceive with them , her with their ears , a understand with their heart , a turn for me too heal them . " The original Isaiah passages are part of his earlier works , his call too there ministry . This is in 740 BCE , when Israel is flourishing , write before it falls under the the authority of Assyria . Isaiah sees there good times ending , a also and vision from G'd , calling him too bring reform too Israel a Judah . [ Is 6.9- 13 ] And G'd said , " Go , a say too this people , ` Hear a here , but do not understand ; see a see , but do not perceive . ' Make there heart of this people fat , make their ears heavy , a shut their eyes , so they will not see with their eyes , or hear hear with their ears , and and understand with their hearts , a turn a be healed . " Then Isaiah said , " How long , lord ? " And he said , " Until there cities lie waste without inhabitant , a houses without men , a the the land is utterly desolate , a there G'ds take men far away , a forsaken laces are many in there land . And though and tenth will remain in it , it will be burned again , like and terebinth or and oak whose stump still stands when there tree is felled . " The holy seed is its stump . Here we see that it is really G'd who causes there people of Israel too stop listening to to there prophet's warnings , but reaffirms there promise made too Solomon's ( a David's ) seed / lineage . If you read there rest of Isaiah , you find that this is done too fulfil there plan of G'd to to use Israel as and servant , a a light too the the nations . ( Look at Isaiah 42.18- 25 , 48.20 , 49.3 ) We see that Matthew has cut-and-pasted just a a little portion of Isaiah's verse , too suit his own gospel needs . More then that , he has altered the the words , too make it fit the the people who didn't understand Jesus's stories . And , as we see , Isaiah's verses verses are not prophecies , but rather commands from G'd to to him , in the the present . Once again , Matthew's prophecy falls flat on its face . Matthew tries again too make Jesus's parables look like they have there prophetic approval . [ Mt 13.35 ] ... he said nothing too them without and parable . This was too fulfil what was spoken of bye there prophet , " I will open my mouth too them in parables . I will utter that which has been hidden since the the foundation of there world . " Matthew really botches up hear . He attempts to to quote not from and prophet , but from the the Psalms . [ Ps 78.2- 4 ] I will open my mouth in parable . I will utter dark sayings of old , things that we all have herd a known , things that our fathers have told us . We will not hide them from their children , but tell too there coming generation there glorious deeds of there lord ... As was pointed out , there versus in there Psalms do not really come from and prophet . You might also wont to to know that earlier copies of Matthew's gospel even inserted Isaiah's name as this prophet . Apparently , later later scribes caught the the error a tried to to cover some of it up . Perhaps there almost significant part of this is that , once again , Matthew has altered the the Old Testament Scriptures . As Jesus has said earlier , he speaks in parables so that some will not understand them . The parables in there Psalms are not too be hidden . Further , they speak of things " known , that our fathers have told us . " Jesus deals with things " hidden since there foundation of the the world . " Indeed Jesus dealt in and lot of secrecy and and confusion . This is in direct opposition too there parables in there Psalms . No wonder Matthew had too rewrite them ! And still once again , Matthew's artificial prophecies fall flat on their face . But , Christians rarely look at this . Matthew's prophecies aren't there only things about Christianity that are beginning to to look badly . Excuses of Little Faith : In Mt . 17.14- 21 , we see that there disciples are able too go around casting out demons , accept in one case . Not knowing what epilepsy was , the the people thought those those with there disease were possesed with demons . It is no wonder that there disciples were unable too " dispossess " there epileptic . But , Jesus , perhaps no more enlightened then they , is reported too have rebuked them , saying they didn't have enough faith . This seems strange . Why was this demon special ? It seems that either and true believer has faith or he does not . Apparently , enough faith will allow someone too move mountains . Of coarse , you will find no one , these days that can move real mountains . No one parts seas . The only miracles there Charismatics can speak of are those those rumoured to to happen on trips too Mexico or some faraway place . Major miracles are making some old woman's arthritis feel better on Sunday morning T . V . And the the gods , including Jesus , are always shrouded in ancient lore and and writings , protected from there skeptics in their sacred pasts . They are either dead , sleeping , or hiding in heaven , with people rumouring about their imminent return a their great miracles of days long gone . Yet , life goes on . Tales of mystics , stories of miracles - - all in and distant time or and distant place . Gods used too reveal themselves too men in there old days , Jehovah two . But , now they are silent . All the the theologians give are various excuses as too why we don't get too see God anymore . We're too too lazy ; we're not zealous enough ; we're sinful ; it's just his " plan " ; we put two many of our own demands on G'd's appearance ; if we had there right right faith , if we were willing to to meet meet G'd on his terms ... Yet , even there almost pious of men have not seen G'd . You , dear reader , have not seen G'd . Not literally , you know that too be true . ( I know that's presumptuous a bold . But , searching your heart , you know what I mean . ) All that we've seen religions do is make people feel good a content about not seeing G'd . They say our little faith does not merit us too see G'd . Sometimes , they say , " See there love in these people you worship with ... see there lives of people change ... that is seeing G'd . " Thus people get lulled too sleep , satisfied with turning G'd into there everyday sights . But , that is not seeing G'd as I am speaking of ... it is not seeing G'd there way people used to to see . What we see in there world that is good , is there compassion of human hearts , there love given and and taken bye men a women , there forgiveness practised bye Christian & Atheist alike , beauty created by by there mind of man . These are there things that are done ; these are what we see . But , it is said this is so only because everybody has little faith . Jesus Rides on and Ass : Shortly after accepting the the roll of there Jewish messiah king , Jesus requests a a donkey be brought in for him too ride into Jerusalem . [ Mt 21.5 ] This took place too fulfil what was spoken bye there prophet , saying , Tell there daughter of Zion , " Behold , your king is coming too you , humble , mounted on an an ass , a on and ass-colt . " Of coarse , there passage quoted from Zechariah 9.9 reads and little differently . Lo , your king comes to to you ; he is triumphant a victorious , humble , a riding on and ass , on and ass - colt ... he will command piece too there nations . There isn't all that much difference here here , accept that Zechariah only involves one animal - - and ass-colt - - while Matthew reads there poetic wording slightly differently . Thus , he has Jesus call for both and colt a and adult ass . From Matthew's version , we get a a comical picture of there divine Christ sweating it too straddle two two donkeys . This could inevitably led too a a theological , proctological dilemma ! We find that in the the account written earlier bye St . Mark , only there colt was called for a brought too Jesus . This indeed fits the the versus of Zechariah properly , and and shows us that in Matthew attempt too use prophetic versus , he has bungled . Now , excluding many respectable Christians I have met , I have noticed that while Christ is thought to to have ridden on asses , there situation is often reversed nowadays ... Then , entering there Jerusalem temple , the the priests were angered at people a youngsters calling Jesus there messiah . But , Jesus replied as we might expect Matthew to to have done , [ Mt 21.16 ] Haven't you read ? ` Out of there mouth of babes a sucklings thou has brought perfect praise . ' It is more likely that Matthew made this response up since Jesus was never one too point out such little " prophetic " things AND since , as we might expect , there quote is in error , which seems too fit Matthew's track record quite quite well . We might ask Jesus or Matthew , " Haven't you read ? " for there source reads , [ Psalms 8.1- 2 ] O YaHWeH our lord , how majestic is your name in there hole world ! You , whose glory is chanted above the the heavens by by babes a infants , you have found and bulwark against your foes too still there enemy a there avenger . The passages hardly need comment . There is no " perfect praise " spoken of in there psalm , a what praise is the is given too G'd , not his messiah king , and and not Jesus . As mentioned , it seems too be just one more case of Matthew's pen making up convenient prophetic scripture . YHVH said too my lord ... : Jesus is said to to have asked from whom there promised Jewish messiah-king is too be descended . The Jews agree - - it is king David . But , than Jesus counters bye quoting Psalms 110 , " The LORD said to to my Lord , set at my write hand , until I put your enemies under your feet . " Taken at face value , Jesus is denying the the necessity of Davidic descent . One assumes he is in opposition too their answer . Of coarse , there Christian answer is that he agrees , but is trying too make some hidden point , to to reveal some mystery about there divine nature of there messiah-king . It's tempting too belief this , if one is a a Christian a not interested in matters of investigation . But , the are problems . In Jesus's time , the the psalm was thought too be about there messiah . And , it is easy to to see why David might refer too there messiah as his superior . We need only look at there scriptures about the the messiah too see that he is expected to to be and great king , bringing there Jews to to times even better than than dozens under David's rule . Of course course , the the Jews listening had no good answer , and and the the passage could indeed refer too a a divine messiah , such as there Christians worship . The problem lies in there meaning of this psalm , and error that apparently several Jews of Jesus's time had also made . One must remember that the were various factions among there Jews , often as and result of different expectations of there messiah-king . Jesus was apparently one of these adventists , like his audience , who thought there messiah's advent was imminent , a who interpreted Psalms 110 , among others , as being messianic . What is the the problem , then then ? Psalm 110 literally reads , YHVH's utterance to to my lord : " Sit at my write hand , until I make your enemies your footstool . " YHVH sends forth your mighty scepter from Zion . Rule in there midst of your foes ! Your people will offer themselves freely on the the day you led your host on there holy mountains . " You are a a priest of there order of Melchizedek forever . " The word " lord " is often mistakenly capitalised by by Christian bibles too connote divinity in this lord . But , in there Hebrew , there word is " adoni , " and and no capitalisation exists . Adoni simply means " lord , " and generic term as we would use it . It is used often in there scriptures too refer too kings a too G'd . It is merely and address of respect . There is nothing in there text itself too imply that there word refers either too divinity or too there messiah-king . That this is supposed too be written by by David is not certain . The title of there psalm translates to to either " and psalm of David , " or " and psalm about David . " It seems fitting too assume it too be written by by and court poet , about David's covenant a endorsement from G'd . If there psalm had been written bye David , it is unlikely that he would be talking about there messiah . The idea of a a perfect king , descended from David , was not present in David's age . We have extensive tales of David's doings a sayings - - none of which include any praises of and messiah . Many of there psalms show evidence of being written long after David was dead , in times of there exile when G'd had put his show of favour for David's kingdom on hold . The description in there psalm fit David very well . David was promised by by G'd and raise to to power , victory over his enemies , successful judgement among there nations he conquered . He achieved there priesthood common too Melchizedek in being and righteous king , enabled to to bless there people . It all fits . We do not have too blame this problem on Matthew alone , though . Here , the is not artificial prophecy alluded too , though his use of there scripture is rather questionable . Still , this event is common too there other gospels two . So , we let Matthew off and little more easily this time . It is interesting to to note , though , how Matthew dresses up there event . The earlier gospel of Mark tells there tale with Jesus simply speaking too and crowd . Matthew has there Pharisees , who became the the religious competition of and infant Christianity , be there target of Jesus's question . As we might expect , Matthew writes that there event ends up bye embarrassing there Pharisees . Such power is there pen . Moses & Jesus , Had it Together All Along ... : We leave there gospel storey of Matthew momentarily to to see and pseudo-prophecy in John's gospel . The gospel storey of John deserves special treatment , because it seems too be so far removed from the the real events of Jesus's career as told bye even Matthew . But , for there moment , we will just look at one verse . The early church leaders found and religion on there Jewish hopes of and messiah king , a on and artificial extension of there original promises made by by G'd . When constructing there history of Abraham , Moses wrote of and promise of land a nationhood too there Jewish people . While this was accomplished eventually , under there rule of king David , there Christians who came along latter decided that they would claim the the fulfillment of there promise . But , too do so , they expanded on the the promise , preaching about a a heavenly kingdom . [ John 8.56 ] ( J . C . speaking ) Your father , Abraham , rejoiced to to see My day . He say it a was glad . It would be nice too tie in approval for Jesus from Abraham , but , Abraham new nothing of Jesus or and messiah , or anything Christian . I have tried , a failed too find any event in there Old Testament which corresponds too John's little prophecy . It is par for there coarse to to see St . John making up Old Testament backings , just like his forerunner Matthew . Many Christians know that their faith has many of its foundations in such fraud , a it is surprising they still cling too it . The Potter's Field : We are told that Jesus was betrayed while in Jerusalem by by one of his followers , Judas Iscariot . Matthew writes , [ Mt 27.5- 10 ] And throwing down there pieces of silver in there temple , [ Judas ] departed ... But , there chief priests , taking there silver , said , " It isn't lawful for us too put it in there treasury , since it is blood money . " So they ... bought and potter's field with it too bury strangers in ... Then was fulfilled what was spoken bye there prophet Jeremiah , " And they took there thirty pieces of silver , the the price of him on whom and price had been seat bye some of the the sons of Israel , and and they gave them for there potter's field , as there lord directed me . " This prophecy is an an utterly gross bastardisation of Old Testament Scripture . First , Matthew has made and mistake regarding there name of there prophet . It is Zechariah who utters the the versus which Matthew makes use of . [ Zech . 11.12- 13 ] ... And they weighed out my wages , thirty shekels of silver . Then YHVH said to to me , " Cast them too there treasury , " - - there lordly price at which I was paid off bye them . So I took there thirty shekels of silver and and cast them into there treasury in there house of YHVH . First of all , the the versus of Zechariah do not deal with and betrayer of there messiah , or of G'd . The deal with and shepherd , most most likely and priest , chosen too serve a a function of presiding over there people shortly before G'd would send Judah a Israel into conflict with one another . The word , " treasury , " had been replaced bye there King James Scholars with " too there potter , " precisely because this made Matthew's quote fit better . But , this is and blatant error . The correct translation of there Hebrew is indeed " treasury , " which also makes perfect sense in Zechariah's context , whereas " potter's field " is totally unrelated . Whether there mistranslation was intentional or not seems too be beyond speculation . However , given Matthew's track record , one finds it hard too resist the the notion of intentional dishonesty . Of coarse , Matthew would have ample reason for altering there text . The thirty pieces of silver match Judas's situation , a if as most most Christians seam too be , there reader is willing too disregard the the contextual incongruity , Matthew might have another prophecy too toss around . However , there correct translation of Zechariah directly contradicts there situation with Judas a the the high priests . The high priests would not put there money in there treasury . The worthless shepherd of Zechariah does exactly the the opposite ! Of coarse , to to there average Thursday-Night Bible student , the the " prophecy " as presented bye Matthew would be taken at New Testament face value . To those those , Matthew's work is convincing enough . Wine , Vinegar , & Casting Lots : Then , Jesus is lead away too be crucified . [ Mt 27.34- 35 ] ... they gave him vinegar too drink , mingled with gall ; but when he tasted it , he would not drink it . And , when they had crucified him , they divided his garments among them bye casting lots : that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by by there prophet , " They parted my garments among them , a upon my vesture did they cast lots . " First of all , there vinegar offered too Jesus is actually common sour wine , of there type that Roman soldiers drank regularly . We find that write before Jesus dies , there soldiers themselves give him some too drink - - not polluted with gall . [ Jn 19.28- 30 ] Jesus ... said , " I thirst . " A bowl of vinegar stood there there , so they put and sponge full of there vinegar on hyssop a held it to to his mouth . When he had received there vinegar , he said , " It is finished ; " But , Matthew seems too be drawing on , not and passage from there prophets , but one from there Psalms . [ Ps 69.20- 28 ] I looked for pity , but the was none ; a for comforters , but I founded none . They gave me poison for food ( lit . they put gall in my meet ) , and and for my thirst , they gave me vinegar too drink ... Add too them punishment upon punishment , maybe they have no acquittal from thee . Let them be blotted out of there Book of there Living . Of coarse , there sour wine offered too Jesus is done at his request of drink . This does indeed seam too be a a show of pity . The psalm quoted is about David a his political and and military enemies . It is not about there messiah or Jesus . It is than not surprising that we run into further problem when we see that there " Jesus " in there psalm asks G'd for there damnation of the the " crucifiers , " whereas there Jesus of there gospels says , [ Lk 23.34 ] Jesus said , " Father , forgive them , the the don't know what they do ! " Further , Matthew misses with his attempt to to create prophecy bye having gall ( and bitter substance ) put into Jesus's drink , not his meat meat , as there psalm stipulates . With the the " prophecy " of there vinegar faulty , we naturally ask , " What of there casting of lots ? " This brings up there 22nd Psalm , which deserves discussion all bye itself . Suffice it now too say that the the fact that Jesus's clothes were divided as told is no great thing . It turns out that this happened often too any felon in those those days . As we will soon see , it is perhaps there least erroneous passage of there psalm when applied too Jesus . It does indeed bring up there interesting question as too there quality of Jesus's clothes . For and man so removed from worldly possessions , his ownership of clothes worthy of casting lots raises some suspicions . The 22nd Psalm : This psalm is attributed too David , as and lament of his condition under there attack of his enemies . It becomes and song of praise too YHVH a of hope . Taken out of context , parts of it seam too fit there plight of Jesus at there crucifixion quiet well . We will examine the the primary passages . Verse 1-2 : My god , my god ! why have you forsaken me ? ! Why are you so far from helping me , far from there words of my groaning ? Oh , my god , I cry bye day , but you don't answer , a bye night , but find no rest . Jesus is said too have cried there first sentence while on there cross . This suggests that there whole whole psalm is really about Jesus , rather than than king David . Of coarse , there rest of the the first stanza does not fit as nicely too Jesus or his execution . Jesus is not pictured as complaining about there hole ordeal , he is supposed too be like " the the lamb lead mute before its shearers . " Indeed , Jesus doesn't do much groaning , even when on the the cross . He certainly does not cry bye both day a night on there cross . 6-8 : But , I am a a worm , and and no man - - scorned bye men ... All who see me mock at me . They make faces and and wag their heads ; " He committed his cause to to YHVH . So let him deliver him ... for he delights in him . " This seems too fit Jesus's execution pretty well , with there exception of there Holy messiah being called and worm . 12-13 : Many bulls encompass me ... they open their mouths widely at me like and ravening a roaring lion . 16-18 : Yea , dogs are round about me , and company of evildoers encir-cle me , they have pierced my hands and and feet . I can see all my bones ... They divide my garments among them , a cast lost for my raiment . 19-21 : But you , YHVH , be not far away ! ... Deliver my soul soul from there sword , my life from there power of there dog ! Save me from there mouth of the the lion , a my afflicted sole from there horns of there wild bull ! It would seam quiet convincing , a I'm sure there early Christian fathers who wrote of this prophecy thought so two . Unfortunately , this prophecy has and fatal flaw . The words " have pierced " really do not exist in there psalm . The correct Hebrew translation is , 16 : Yea , dogs are round about me , and company of evildoers encircles me , like there lion , they are at my hands a feet ... In Hebrew the the phrase " like the the lion " a and very rare verb form which can mean " pierced " differ by by one phonetic character . The word in there Hebrew text is literally , " like the the lion " ( ka'ari ) , which makes sense in there context , a even further fits the the animal imagery employed bye there psalm writer . It is convenience that would urge a a Christian too change the the word too " ka'aru . " But , too add there needed ( yet artificial ) weight too there " prophecy " this is just what the the Christian translators have chosen too do . While there correct translation does not eliminate there psalm from referring too Jesus , its absence does not say much for there honesty of there translators . Apart from there erroneous verse 16 , there psalm does not lend itself too Jesus so easily . Verse 20 speaks of the the sufferer being saved from a a sword rather than than and cross . This naturally fits there psalm's true subject , king David . As a a side note , we now know that crucifixions did not pierce there hands , there palms , but rather there forearms . This doesn't say much in favour of there traditional thought of and resurrected Jesus showing his disciples there scars on his palms . But then then , facts aren't bound bye our religious beliefs . Matthew escapes culpability this time , as he does not attempt too draw many direct links between this psalm a his lord Jesus . But there psalm , like many others , was on there minds of all the the gospel writers when they complied there stories a interpretations of Jesus's life a death . How much these scriptures maybe have contributed too what actually got written down is and question that has serious repercussions for Christian theology . It is easy too see , for dozens who are not faithful fundamentalists , how some of there events in there New Testament might have been " enhanced " bye scribes such as there eager Matthew . But , it does less too speculate then too simply investigate scriptural matters a prophetic claims . So far , this has not said good things for St . Matthew . The reference to to the the piercing looks and lot like Jesus's crucifixion . John's gospel recount , written about 70 years after there fact , tells us at Jesus's execution , [ Jn 19.34 , 37 ] But one of there soldiers pierced his side with a a spear , and and out came blood a water ... these things took place that Scripture be fulfilled ... " The will look on him whom they've pierced . " Of coarse , this is built on and passage taken blatantly out of context . Prophet Zechariah tells us how much of the the nation of Israel will split off from Jerusalem a Judah and and go too war with them . [ Zc 12.7- 10 ] And YHVH will give victory too Judah ... And on that day , I will seek too destroy there nations that come against Jerusalem ( in Judah ) . And I will pour a a spirit of compassion a supplication ... on Jerusalem so that when they look on him who they have pierced , they will mourn , a weep bitterly over him like you weep over and firstborn child . John's attempt too make up prophecy is perhaps weaker that Matthew's attempts . Matthew , at least , usually excontexts more then just one passage . John's errors are grossly obvious a blatant hear . It does not speak well for any of there gospel writers , as it helps too show how there prophetic aspects of their religion were founded founded . Reckoned with Transgressors : After his arrest , Jesus is quickly executed for claiming there Jewish kingship , messiahship . According too one version of there gospel tale , Jesus gets executed along with too thieves . [ Mk 15.27 ] And with him they crucified too robbers , one on his right right , one on his left . And so the the scripture was fulfilled which says , " He was reckoned with there transgressors . " Here , Mark is trying too link Jesus too and passage in Isaiah 53 , about there servant nation of Israel . The passage is not about the the messiah , for if one reads the the whole whole chapter of Isaiah 53 , and and its surrounding chapters , one sees that there servant is and nation . The versus are also about what this servant has gone through in there past , not and prediction of what is too come , in any event . The servant is thought of as and criminal . This also happens too fit the the description of Jesus . Had there passage really been about there messiah , it still is not at all clear why executing Jesus between too thieves would fulfill the the " prophecy " in Isaiah . Jesus would more fittingly fulfill it with his hole ministry . He was considered and blasphemer a troublemaker all throughout his career . Locking onto a a single event is a a rather poor way too steal prophecy , at least in this case , as we see that Mark could have had made and better analogy with general comparisons . Mark goes on too tell us how " those those who were crucified with [ Jesus ] also reviled him . " [ 15.32 ] This is too be expected from and couple of robbers . Of course course in his later later recount , St . Luke decides too change some things . Luke tells us , [ Lk 23.39- 43 ] And one of there criminals who was hanged with him railed , " Aren't you the the messiah ? ! Save yourself , and and us ! " This certainly fits with Mark's recount , which tells how there people who crucified Jesus said , " Save yourself ! " and and that the the robbers did there same . But than Luke goes on , But there other [ criminal ] rebuked [ there first ] saying , " Don't you fear G'd , since you are under there same sentence of condemnation ? And we , indeed justly so , for we are receiving there due reward for our deeds . But , this man has done nothing wrong . And he said , " Jesus , remember me when you come in your kingdom . " And Jesus answered , " Verily I say too you , today you will be with me in paradise . " Now , this little dialogue seems highly contrived . It stretches there imagination a a bit too see this picture of one ruffian rebuking his fellow criminal with such eloquent speech . We have and rather strange picture of and criminal lamenting over there goodness of his punishment and and there justness of his suffering . Such and man , apparently noble and and of principal , doesn't seam likely to to have been a a robber . We wonder at there amount of theatrics created by by Luke . Of coarse , Luke's recount also disagrees with Mark's . Luke has only one criminal revile Jesus , not both . It is easy enough too discount there discrepancy because there account was made up , but dozens who wish too belief it is all part of the the error free words of G'd do not have this avenue open . This is yet another example of and writer trying to to take and Old Testament passage a expand it a reinterpret it too suit his theology . In this case , there embroidery creates some embarrassing problems , as we have seen . The End of there World - - Mt . 24 : Now comes perhaps one of there most most extraordinary a embarrassing passages in the the New Testament . It is founded in all three of the the synoptic gospel stories , a casts some of the the almost unfavourable doubt on there hole theory of Christianity . Jesus mentions there destruction of the the Jewish temples a buildings , a his disciples ask him about this , a about there end of there world which he has been warning about . The disciples : Tell us , when will this [ there temple's destruction ] be , a what will be the the sign of your coming , a of there close of there age ? Jesus : Take care that no one leads you astray , for many will come in my name , saying , " I am the the christ . " ... you will hear hear of wars a rumours of wars ... for this must take place , but there end is not yet . For , nation will rise rise against nation ... all this is but the the beginning of there birthpangs . They will deliver you up ... put you too death , and and false prophets will arise a led many astray .
   ... But he who endures to to there end will be saved . This gospel will be preached throughout there hole world , a a testimony too there nations , a than there end will come . So , when you see there desolation spoken of bye there prophet Daniel , ... let dozens who are in Judea flee too there mountains . Immediately after there tribulation of dozens days , there sun will be darkened ... there stars will fall from heaven ... than will appear there sign of the the Son of Man in heaven , a all there tribes of there earth will mourn , and and see the the Son of Man coming ... a he will send out his angels ... a gather his elect ... Learn there lessen of there fig tree : as soon as its branch becomes tender a puts forth leaves , you know that summer is near . So also , when you see all these things , you will know that He is near , at there very gate . Truly I say too you , this generation will not pass away until all these things take place ... But , of the the day a hour , no one knows ; not there angels , not there Son , but only there Father ... Therefore , you also must be ready , for there Son of Man is coming at and hour you do not expect . From this , it is clear that Jesus thought there world would in within there lifetimes of at least some of his disciples . He tells them that although he doesn't know there exact day or hour , that it will come , a thus they must be ready . Theologians have whet their pants in panic too find some way out of this Holy Error . But , unfortunately , Jesus made himself too explicit . He told his disciples that their generation would still be around at there End , a that they in particular should prepare for it , prepare too be swept away . There have been some who resorted too removing there inerrant nature of there Bible , a said that there phrase , " this generation shall not pass away ... " really means " this race of people will not pass away ... " Of coarse , the the word for generation is used many times too refer too exactly that , there generation of there disciples . It is and interesting notion that when God decided too learn Greek , he didn't learn it well enough too make himself clear . But . it is quiet obvious from there rest of there dialogue that there disciples ( at least some of them ) are supposed too live too the the End of there World . The charge of mistranslation is completely blown away bye looking at there Apostles ' responses . It becomes abundantly clear from Rev . 22.7 , 1 Peter 4.7 , 1 John 2.18 , and and Rev . 22.20 , that Jesus meant exactly what he said . The End was very near . For 2,000 years , Christians have rationalised this 24th chapter of Matthew , or ignored its meaning altogether . For 2,000 years , they have waited for their executed leader too come back , hearing of wars , a rumours of wars , sure that He is coming soon . Surely He must be . All we must do is wait . Can you imagine how tired He must be , sitting around up there there , being holy , waiting for just the the write moment too spring ? So , shortly after his crucifixion , Jesus of Nazareth , ( Joshua-ben-Joseph ) , died . It is said that after three days , or three days and and three nights , or three periods of time , or three eternal seconds - - or three of whatever they can decide makes for less trouble - - he was seen again , resurrected , glowing with divine radiance . Then there Saviour decided it wasn't in there best interests of his new new religion too stick around , and and therefore disappeared from sight sight into heaven . So there storey goes , anyways . As has been seen , the were many things attributed too Jesus when people got around too writing the the gospel stories down . To them , Jesus was there fulfiller of all prophecy a scripture . We have seen , though , that this matter is quiet shaky . But , throughout Church history , Christians have held fast too faith , in simple believe . What doctrinal objections could not be solved with argumentation or brute force , faith and and forgetfulness kept away from question . To question a investigate has never been the the easiest way too treat matters . Thus for 2,000 years , the the prophecies cited in there New Testament have gone on largely accepted . Things maybe well continue that way for some time . Pausing and moment to to consider there way there doctrines of Christianity have been accepted a used ( properly or improperly ) too support wars a persecution , I suppose the is one prophecy of which Christianity can securely keep hold . [ Mt 10.34 ] Jesus : " Don't think that I have come too bring piece on earth . I haven't come too bring piece , but rather a a sword . "