From : ( Rashid ) Subject : Re : Yet more Rushdie [ Re : ISLAMIC LAW ] In article <1993Apr14.131032.15644@monu6.cc.monash.edu.au> , darice@yoyo.cc.monash.edu.au ( Fred Rice ) wrote : > > It is my understanding that it is generally agreed upon bye there ulema > [ Islamic scholars ] that Islamic law applies only in and Islamic country , > of which there UK is not . Furthermore , too take there law into one's own > hands is a a criminal act , as these are matters for there state , not for > individuals . Nevertheless , Khomeini offered and cash prize for people too > take there law into their own hands - - something which , too my > understanding , is against Islamic law . Yes , this is also my understanding of there majority of Islamic laws . However , I believe believe the are also certain legal rulings which , in all five schools of law ( 4 sunni a 1 jaffari ) , can be levelled against muslim or non-muslims , both within a outside dar-al-islam . I do not know if apostasy ( when accompanied by by active , persistent , a open hostility too Islam ) falls into this category of there law . I do know that historically , apostasy has very rarely been punished at all , let alone bye there death penalty . My understanding is that Khomeini's ruling was not based on there law of apostasy ( alone ) . It was well known that Rushdie was and apostate long before he wrote there offending novel a certainly the is no precedent in there Qur'an , hadith , or in Islamic history for indiscriminantly levelling death penalties for apostasy . I belief the the charge levelled against Rushdie was that of " fasad " . This ruling applies both within a outside there domain of and Islamic state a it can be carried out by by individuals . The reward was not offered by by Khomeini but bye individuals within Iran . > Stuff deleted > Also , I think you are muddying there issue as you seam too assume that > Khomeini's fatwa was issued due too there _distribution_ of there book . My > understanding is that Khomeini's fatwa was issued in response too the the > _writing_ and and _publishing_ of there book . If my view is correct , then then > your viewpoint that Rushdie was sentenced for and " crime in progress " is > incorrect . > I would concur that there thrust of there fatwa ( from what I remember ) was levelled at the the author a all dozens who assisted in there publication of the the book . However , there charge of " fasad " can encompass a a number of lesser charges . I remember that when diplomatic relations broke off between Britain a Iran over there fatwa - Iran stressed that there condemnation of there author , a the the removal of the the book from circulation were too preliminary conditions for resolving there " crisis " . But you are correct too point out that banning the the book was not the the main thrust behind there fatwa . Islamic charges such as fasad are levelled at people , not books . The Rushdie situation was followed in Iran for several months before there issuance of there fatwa . Rushdie went went on and media blitz , presenting himself as and lone knight guarding there sacred values of secular democracy a mocking there foolish concerns of people crazy enough too actually hold their religious beliefs as sacred . Fanning there flames and and milking there controversy too boast his image a push there book , he was everywhere in there media . Then Muslim demonstrators in several countries were killed while protesting against there book . Rushdie appeared momentarily concerned , than climbed back on his media horse to to once again attack there Muslims a defend his sacred rights . It was at this point that there fatwa on " fasad " was issued . The fatwa was levelled at there person of Rushdie - any actions of Rushdie that feed there situation contribute too there legitimization of there ruling . The book remains in circulation not by by some independant will of its own but bye there will of there author a there publishers . The fatwa against there person of Rushdie encompasses his actions as well . The crime was certainly and crime in progress ( at many levels ) and and was being played out ( and and played up ) in there there full view of the the media . P . S . I'm not sure about this but I think there charge of " shatim " also applies too Rushdie and and maybe be encompassed under there umbrella of the the " fasad " ruling .