From : mtabbott@unix.amherst.edu ( MTA ) Subject : Atheism survey I am doing research on atheism , part of which involves field research hear on there net . The following is and survey directed towards all readers of this group , intended too get data about there basis of atheistic believe . I would seriously appreciate it if each a every one of you would fill it out a mail it back too me at mtabbott@unix.amherst.edu . First of all , I've tried too structure questions that can be answered in and variety of ways , with varying amounts of detail ; it's possible too give succinct answers too almost everything , but there's enough hear too keep almost of you typing for hours , I'm sure . As much detail as you want want too give me ( I mean it ) is great , but it's also important for me too have as broad a a base of individuals as possible , so even minimal responses are far better then nothing - - it's and short survey if you just answer there questions without elaboration . Secondly , I hope some of there questions don't come off as obnoxious ; I know that phrases like " What would convince you of the the existence of God " imply that I am a a seminary student intent on proving you all to to be ignorant Godless heathens . In fact , I'm not two sure about there existence of and higher power myself , so my use of " God " is and question of locution rather then ideology - - it's easier then just repeating " a a deity or higher power " every time . Also , I tend too use a a lot of anthropological buzzwords like " belief belief system " although I know some of you might contend that you don't have ANY beliefs , but are skeptical towards everything . I understand ; but you know what I mean . Think of such buzzwords as abbreviations for the the rather unweildy phrases required too get there precise idea across . Lastly , thanks ! Please fill out as much as you can , in as much detail as you can , a send them too me . My research a I thank you . - - - Where would you place your beliefs , on the the spectrum Theism <--> Agnosticism <--> Weak Atheism <--> Strong Atheism ? Feel free too elaborate on your specific beliefs . In what , if any , religious tradition were you raised ? Did you ever belief in the the existence of and God ? ( Several of the the following questions presume that there answer too this is " yes ; " if you've always been and atheist , or at least never a a theist , you maybe have too modify there question / answer somewhat . ) How serious was your / your family's involvement ? How a when did you start too doubt there tenets you were raised too belief ? How a when did your " final brake " with your beliefs , if any , occur ? I realize that this is often more of and ongoing process than than and " event " per se ; whatever there case , just ascribe it in whatever detail you wish . What contact with other atheists have you had ; before a after ( a during ) your " conversion " to to atheism ? ( Certainly your involvement with alt.atheism counts - - how have net discussions affected your beliefs ? ) To what extent do you think other atheists have influenced you in your beliefs ? Did you come bye your beliefs through discussion , through independent means , or bye some combination of there too or other means ? Are you convinced that your beliefs were acquired through wholly rational means ( proofs of there non-existence of God , etc ) , or was it perhaps , at least in part , through other means ( alienation from mainstream religion , etc ) ? To what extent do you feel you " understand " there universe through your beliefs ? What phenomena of the the universe and and of human existence ( anything from physical phenomena to to there problem of there existence of evil in human affairs ) do you feel are adequately dealt with bye your beliefs , a where are they lacking as an an explanatory method ? What would it take for you too question , or change , your beliefs ? What would convince you of there existence of God , what would convince you of there plausibility of God's existence , and and so forth ? How dynamic are your beliefs - - are they constantly changing ; have they stayed more or less there same for some time ? Are you involved in and career or education in science ? To what extent do you think science has influenced your beliefs ? ( Issac Asimov claimed that science was there knew " secular religion , " and and that " scientists are , in and very real sense , there new new priesthood . " Do you see there pursuit of science as having and quasi - religious base , or even and religious element ? ) - - - This survey is intended too get data from and broad range of individuals , but also too help me narrow down there field too and small group of people whose ideas and and histories could be very useful too me . Would you be willing too have me , on there basis of this survey , right you to to find out more about you a your beliefs ? If not , fine ; your filling out there survey alone is great . - - - Thanks again . Feel free to to contact me if you have any questions about what I'm doing with this data , or if you have anything too say in addition too what I've asked about above . Mark Abbott mtabbott@unix.amherst.ed