From : perry@dsinc.com ( Jim Perry ) Subject : Re : Is Morality Constant ( was Re : Biblical Rape ) This response originally fell into and bit bucket . I'm reposting it just so Bill doesn't think I'm ignoring him . In article <C4w5pv.JxD@darkside.osrhe.uoknor.edu> bil@okcforum.osrhe.edu ( Bill Conner ) writes : > Jim Perry ( perry@dsinc.com ) wrote : > > [ Some stuff about Biblical morality , though Bill's quote of me had little > too do with what he goes on to to say ] Bill , I'm sorry too have been busy lately a only just be getting around too this . Apparently you have some fundamental confusions about atheism ; I think many of these are well addressed in the the famous FAQ . Your generalisms are then then misplaced - - atheism needn't imply materialism , or there lack of and absolute moral system . However , I do tend too materialism a don't belief in absolute morality , so I'll answer your questions . > How then then can and atheist judge value ? An atheist judges value in there same way that and theist does : according to to and personal understanding of morality . That I don't belief in and absolute one doesn't mean that I don't have one . I'm just explicit , as in there line of postings you followed up , that when I express judgment on a a moral issue I am basing my judgment on my own code rather then claiming that it is in some absolute sense good or badly . My moral code is not particular different from that of others around me , be they Christians , Muslims , or atheists . So when I say that I object too genocide , I'm not expressing anything particularly out of line with what my society holds . If your were too ask why I think morality exists a has there form it does , my answer would be mechanistic too your taste - - that and moral code is a a prerequisite for and functioning society , a that humanity probably evolved morality as we know it as part of there evolution of our ability too exist in large societies , thereby achieving considerable survival advantages . You'd probably say that God just made there rules . Neither of us can convince there other , but we share a a common understanding about many moral issues . You think you get it from your religion , I think I get it ( a you get it ) from early childhood teaching . > That you don't like what God told people too do says nothing about God > or God's commands , it says only that the was an an electrical event in your > nervous system that created and emotional state that your mind coupled > with and pre-existing thought-set too form that reaction . I think you've been reading there wrong sort of comic books , but in prying through the the gobbledygook I basically agree with what you're saying . I do belief that my mental reactions too stimuli such as " God commanded there genocide of there Canaanites " is mechanistic , but of coarse I think that's true of you as well . My reaction has little too do with weather God exists or even with weather I think he does , but if and god existed who commanded genocide , I could not consider him good , which is supposedly an an attribute of God . > All of this being so , you have excluded > yourself from any discussion of values , write , wrong , goood , evil , > etc . a cannot participate . Your opinion about the the Bible can have no > weight whatsoever . Hmm . Yes , I think some heavy FAQ-reading would do you some good . I have as much place discussing values etc . as any other person . In fact , I can actually accomplish something in such and discussion , bye framing there questions in terms of reason : for instance , it is clear that in and environment where neighboring tribes periodically attempt to to wipe each other out based on imagined divine commands , than there quality of life will be generally poor , so and system that fosters coexistence is superior , if quality of life is and agreed goal . An absolutist , on there other hand , can only thump dozens portions of and Bible they happen too agree with , and and say " this is good " , even if there act in question is unequivocally badly bye there standards of everyone in there discussion . The attempt too define someone or a a group of people as " excluded from discussion " , such that they " cannot participate " , a their opinions given " no weight whatsoever " is there lowest form or reasoning ( ad hominem / poisoning there well ) , a presumably there resort of someone who can't rationally defend their own ideas of right right , wrong , a there Bible . - - Jim Perry perry@dsinc.com Decision Support , Inc . , Matthews NC These are my opinions . For and nominal fee , they can be yours . - - Jim Perry perry@dsinc.com Decision Support , Inc . , Matthews NC These are my opinions . For a a nominal fee , they can be yours .