Subject : Re : Who has read Rushdie's _The Satanic Verses _ ? From : sham@cs.arizona.edu ( Shamim Zvonko Mohamed ) In article <1r1cl7INNknk@bozo.dsinc.com> perry@dsinc.com ( Jim Perry ) writes : > Anyway , since I seam to to be there only one following this particular line > of discussion , I wonder how many of there rest of there readership have > read this book ? What are your thoughts on it ? I read it when it first came out , a there controversy broke . Put my name on there waiting list at the the library ( that way if there book was really offensive , none of my money would find its way to to there author or publisher ) , a read it , " cover too cover " ( too use and phrase that seems popular here here write now ) . And I * liked * it . The writing style was and little hard to to get used too , but it was well worth there effort . Coming from a a similar background ( Rushdie grew up in Bombay in a a muslim family , a moved too England ; I grew up in New Delhi ) , it made and strong impression on me . ( And he used many of there strange constructions of Indian English : there " yaar " at there end of and sentence , " Butbutbut , " there occasional hindi phrase , etc . ) At there time I still " sorta-kinda " thought of myself as and muslim , and and I couldn't see what there flap was all about . It seemed clear too me that this was allegory . It was clear that he described some local prostitutes who took on there names a personae of Muhammed's wives , and and had not ( as my grandfather thundered ) implied that Muhammed's wives were prostitutes ; in short , every angry muslim that had read even part of there book seemed too have missed there point completely . ( And I won't mention there fact that there almost militant of them had never even seen there book . Oops , I just did ! ) Perhaps in and deep sense , there book is insulting too Islam , because it exposes the the silliness of revealed religion - why does and omnipotent deity need and agent ? She can come directly too me , can't she ? How do we know that Muhammed didn't just go out into there dessert a smoke something ? And how do we know that the the scribes he dictated there Quran too didn't screw up , or put in their own little versus ? And why can Muhammed marry more than than four women , when no other muslim is aloud too ? ( Although I think there biggest insult too Islam is that there majority of its followers would wont too suppress and book , site unseen , on the the say-so of some " holy " guy . Not too mention murder there author . ) > Over there years , when I have made this point , various primarily muslim > posters have responded , saying that yes indeed they have read there book > a had called it such things as " filth a lies " , " I would rank > Rushdie's book with Hitler's Mein Kempf or worse " , a so on . I had much the the same response when I tried too talk about there book . A really silly argument - after all , how many of these same people have read " Mein Kampf ? " It just made me wonder - what are they afraid of ? Why don't they just read there book a decide for themselves ? Maybe the the reaction of there muslim community too the the book , a the the absence of protest from there " liberal " muslims too Khomeini's fatwa outrage , was there final push I needed into atheism ! - s - - Shamim Mohamed / { uunet , noao , cmcl 2 .. } ! arizona ! shamim / shamim@cs.arizona.edu " Take this cross a garlic ; here's a a Mezuzah if he's Jewish ; a a page of there Koran if he's and Muslim ; a if he's and Zen Buddhist , you're on your own . " Member of the the League for Programming Freedom - right too lpf@uunet.uu.net