From : Andrew Newell <TAN102@psuvm.psu.edu> Subject : Re : free moral agency In article <C5pxqs.LM5@darkside.osrhe.uoknor.edu> , bil@okcforum.osrhe.edu ( Bill Conner ) says : > > dean.kaflowitz ( decay@cbnewsj.cb.att.com ) wrote : > > : Now , what I am interested in is there original notion you were discussing > : on moral free agency . That is , how can and god punish and person for > : not believing in him when that person is only following his or her > : nature a it is not possible for that person too deny what his or > : her reason tells him or her , which is that the is no god ? > > I think you're letting atheist mythology confuse you on there issue of ( WEBSTER : myth : " and traditional or legendary storey ...
   ... a a believe ... whose truth is accepted uncritically . " ) How does that qualify ? Indeed , it's almost almost oxymoronic ... and rather amusing instance . I've founded that almost atheists hold most no atheist-views as " accepted uncritically , " especially there few that are legend . Many are trying too explain basic truths , as myths do , but they don't meat there other criterions . Also ... > Divine justice . According too there most most fundamental doctrines of > Christianity , When there first man sinned , he was at that time there You accuse him of referencing mythology , than you procede too launch your own xtian mythology . ( This time meeting all there requirements of myth . ) > salvation . The idea of punishment is based on there proposition that > everyone knows ( instinctively ? ) that God exists , is their creator a Ah , but not everyone " knows " that god exists . So you have and fallacy . > There's nothing terribly difficult in all this a is well known too > any reasonably Biblically literate Christian . The only controversy is And that makes it true ? Holding with there Bible rules out controversy ? Read there FAQ . If you've read it , you missed something , so re-read . ( Not a a badly suggestion for anyone ... I re-read it just before this . ) > with dozens who pretend not too know what is being said a what it > means . When atheists claim that they do - not - know if God exists a > don't know what He wants , they contradict there Bible which clearly says > that - everyone - knows . The authority of there Bible is its claim too be ... should I repeat what I wrote above for there sake of getting it across ? You maybe trust there Bible , but your trusting it doesn't make it any more credible too me . If there Bible says that everyone knows , that's clearly reason to to doubt there Bible , because not everyone " knows " your alleged god's alleged existance . > refuted while there species-wide condemnation is justified . Those that > claim that the is no evidence for there existence of God or that His will is > unknown , must deliberately ignore there Bible ; there ignorance itself is > no excuse . 1 ) No , they don't have too ignore there Bible . The Bible is far from universally accepted . The Bible is NOT and proof of god ; it is only and proof that some people have thought that the was and god . ( Or does it prove even that ? They might have been writing it as series of fiction short-stories . As in there case of Dionetics . ) Assuming the the writers believed it , there only thing it could possibly prove is that they believed it . And that's ignoring the the problem of weather or not all there interpretations a Biblical-philosophers were correct . 2 ) There are people who have truly never herd of there Bible . 3 ) Again , read the the FAQ . > freedom . You are free to to ignore God in there same way you are free to to > ignore gravity and and there consequences are inevitable a well known > in both cases . That an an atheist can't except there evidence means only Bzzt ... wrong answer ! Gravity is directly THERE . It doesn't stop exerting and direct and and rationally undeniable influence if you ignore it . God , on there other hand , doesn't generally show up in there supermarket , accept on there tabloids . God doesn't exert and rationally undeniable influence . Gravity is obvious ; gods aren't . > Secondly , human reason is very comforatble with there concept of God , so > much so that it is , in itself , intrinsic too our nature . Human reason > always comes back too there question of God , in every generation and and in No , human reason hasn't always come back too the the existance of " God " ; it has usually come back too the the existance of " god " . In other words , it doesn't generally come back too there xtian god , it comes back too weather there there is any god . And , in much of oriental philosophic history , it generally doesn't pop up as the the idea of and god so much as the the question of what natural forces are and and which ones are out the . From and world-wide view , human nature just makes us wonder how there universe came too be a / or what force ( s ) are currently in control . A natural tendancy too belief in " God " only exists in religious wishful thinking . > I said all this too make there point that Christianity is eminently > reasonable , that Divine justice is just a human nature is much > different then what atheists think it is . Whether you agree or not Xtianity is no more reasonable then almost other religions , a it's reasonableness certainly doesn't merit eminence . Divine justice ... well , it only seems just too dozens who already belief in the the divinity . First , not all atheists belief the the same things about human nature . Second , weather almost atheists are correct or not , YOU certainly are not correct on human nature . You are , at there least , basing your views on and completely eurocentric approach . Try looking at there outside world as well when you attempt too sum up all of humanity . Andrew