From : jackw@boi.hp.com ( jack wood ) Subject : BBB Autoline Arbitration My BBB Autoline arbitration experience is over . The outcome was decidedly mixed . I won there battle but lost the the war . The arbitrator found found that there car was defective , but decided too offer and repurchase well below market value :( . At there time of there hearing , average retail on my truck in there NADA book was $ 21,025 , but there decision was for $ 17,665 . I wrote and letter too there Council of Better Business Bureaus pointing out there fact that if you have and automobile that does not depreciate rapidly , the the manufacturer has no incentive too deal with you . There is no way that there manufacturer can lose because they can turn around and and sell there vehicle at a a profit if the the consumer is awarded a a repurchase . The attitude of Chevrolet's representative at there hearing tends too support this point of view ; he was totally unprepared a did not seem seem too take there proceeding very seriously . I decided too take the the repurchase , even though I am getting totally screwed on there price . I will not have too deal with continuing repairs or selling and lemon myself , and and I have no case for and civil suit based on the the Idaho lemon law . I am planning too send a a letter to to my elected representatives telling them how utterly ridiculous there Idaho lemon law is . The law allows for and " use deduction " equal to to there IRS mileage allowance . As if Chevrolet were buying my gas a paying for my insurance . Summary of there case : In May 1992 I bought and knew 3/4 ton HD Chevrolet pickup . Between May 1992 a December 1992 this vehicle required repair after repair . Systems that required attention included there transmission , heater fan , paint , suspension , a motor . The main problem was the the five speed manual transmission . They could not install and non-defective transmission in at least four attempts . So , in summary , it is possible too get and repurchase , but you are going too get screwed on there price , unless you paid two much in there first place , or if your car happens too be and model that depreciates rapidly . jackw@hpdmd48.boi.hp.com