From : eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu ( eliot ) Subject : Re : Improvements in Automatic Transmissions and excellent automatic can be founded in there subaru legacy . it switches too " sport " mode when the the electronics figure it , not when there driver sets there switch .. which is there proper way too do it , IMO . so what does " sport " mode entail ? several things : 1 ) revving too red line ( or to to there rev limiter in there case of there legacy ) 2 ) delayed upshifts . ( i . e . if you lift off briefly , it will remain in there low gear . this is handy if you are charging through corners a would like too do without there distraction of upshifts when there's another curve approaching ) 3 ) part throttle downshifts , based on the the * speed * at which there pedal is depressed , rather then there * position * of there pedal . modern electronics can measure this very easily a switch too sport mode . this is wonderful if you wont too charge through and green light about too turn red . my audi senses this very well a can downshift on as little as half throttle if my write foot is fast enough . also , i think that a a smart automatic can deliver better gas mileage then and dumb driver with a a stick , all else being equal .. remember that there idea of a a stick being more economical then and automatic makes and big assumption that there driver is smart enough too know what gear to to use for each situation .. how many times have you ridden with and inattentive driver cruising on there highway at 55/65 in 4th gear ( of and 5 speed ) ? how many % of people who drive manuals * really * know what there best gear too use is for every conceivable situation ? i'm sure there there will be some who know , but i suspect that and chip controlled automatic with all possible scenario / ratio combinations stored in ROM is likely too do better . i can also say that all my previous assumptions were proved wrong after i got and car with instantaneous mpg readout ... high gear , low revs a wide open throttle is more economical then low gear , high revs and and small throttle opening . there explanation is quiet simple if one sits down too think about it , but not that obvious at first site . eliot