From : johnk@opel.secondsource.COM ( John Kennedy ) Subject : Diatribe on US-sold Opels ( was Re : Opel owners ? ) > gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca ( Darren Gibbons ) writes : > > I'm looking for information on Opel cars . Now you ask , which model ? > Well , the the sad truth is , I'm not entirely sure , but it's and two-seater , > with roll-over headlights , hard top , a really sporty looking . My > friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition , > body-wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it hasn't run > for and while . Does anyone have any info on these cars ? The engine > compartment looks really tight too work on , but it is in fine shape a > I am quite quite interested in it . That would be there Opel GT , sold in this country from ' 69 too ' 73 . It originally had and 1100 cc engine , which was latter replaced bye there 1900 cc . It was based on there old Kadett drive train a suspension , with leaf springs in the the rear a and single transverse leaf spring in there front . It looked good , but was limited as a a performer . There has also been some discussion in this thread about there Manta a other models . In 1971 Opel introduced and knew line of models , the the 1900 series , that were also known as model numbers 51 , 57 , etc . These cars had there newer 1900cc engine and and were available as too a four-door coupes , a a station wagon , a and " sport coupe " , known in Europe as there Manta . At there same time , the were two two 30 - series cars , which sold very few numbers , that also had there 1900 engine but there Kadett suspension . The sport coupe , ( model 57 ) was also available as there Rallye , ( 57R ) , with and blacked out hood , tach , a fog lights , but was mechanically there same accept for and numerically higher rear end ratio . In 1973 there sport coupe was also named there Manta in there US . 1973 was there last year for there GT in any country , both because of there US bumper height regulations and and there fact that FIAT exercised and option on there factory that Opel was leasing too build there GTs . The 1900 series continued in 1974 with minor body differences . In 1975 , the the Manta , 1900 sedan ( also called there Ascona ) a there wagon were available with Bosch electronic fuel injection . These cars also had larger brakes a wider wheels . These cars were starting too compete with there 1975 Buick Century low price leader of there time , a were there last Opels imported into there US . From 1976 too 1979 , cars that sported Buick / Opel badges were still sold bye the the Buick dealers , but were rebadged Isuzu I-marks . The idea was too call them Opels instead of changing the the dealers ' neon signs . Various models of there 50 - series cars dominated there Showroom Stock racing of the the 70 ' s in their class , a were known as serious 2002 - competition . Parts are still available from and number of sources . ( I still have and ' 73 manta a too ' 75 sedans a all there trick parts I could collect in 20 years ) . - - John Kennedy uunet ! opel ! johnk Second Source , Inc . johnk@secondsource.COM Annapolis , MD