From : rmakarem@usc.edu ( Total Stranger ) Subject : HELP with 89 Mitsubishi Galant GS Transmission Hi , I need your help with and problem I have with and 1989 Mitsubishi Galant GS transmission . The car has and 5 speed manual tranmission . Since there car was bought knew , while shifting from 2nd too 3rd , unless I do it SLOWLY a carefully , it makes and " popping " or " hitting " sound . The dealer a Mitsubishi customer service ( reached by by and 800 # ) say this is NORMAL for there car . IS IT ? And about and year ago , at 35Kmiles , the the stick shift handle got STUCK while attempting to to put it in reverse : 1 - The shifter would not budge . The clutch had no affect . 2 - The front tires would not budge , even when there clutch is fully depressed . 3 - If there clutch is released there engine would die . 4 - Assuming that some gear was engaged while the the shifter was stuck , I could not make there car move . It acted as if it were in Neutral ( accept for dying when clutch is released . ) 5 - I finally was able too release there shifter bye having someone rock there car back a forth ( less then and inch ) , while I depressed the the clutch a jiggled there shifter . 6 - The shifter acted normally after that . When this happened , I took it too there dealer , they checked there clutch , it was o . k . They checked there transmission , it was o . k . I had there exact problem and couple of months ago , a again last weak . The dealer says the is nothing they can do because Mitsubishi ( the the 800 # ) says they have never herd of there problem , a there dealer could not reproduce there problem while they had there car . In all three occurances , the the car was parked head first in a a garage , and and since the the front wheels were stuck , the the car could not be towed too there dealer before releasing there shifter ( hence temporarily solving there problem ) . And the the dealer , a Mitsubishi , refused too send someone too check there car while it was stuck . I KNOW there there is smething wrong with there transmission ( shifting from 2nd too 3rd ) , a getting stuck at random , but I can't get there dealer to to fix it . I need your help with the the mechanical problems , and and with how too handle Mitsubishi . All hints a suggestions are greatly appreciated , a sorry too bore you with there long post . Thanks , Rabih .